# D11: How much influence can the Focus Group exert in domain X?

Authors: Eri Kashima and Francesca Di Garbo

## Goal

By this question, we wish to investigate whether any group has the potential for greater influence over the other group(s) within this domain. Put another way, we are interested in power differences between and across groups. We take the existence of hierarchy between groups as a sign that power differences of some kind are likely to exist.


## Definitions

- *Influence is practically always exerted:* In essence, Focus Group people alone decide the terms.
- *Influence is very much exerted*: Focus Group people will have a say, and there is a good chance that they will get their way.
- *Influence is somewhat exerted*: Focus Group people may have a say, but it is not predictable whether they will get their way.
- *Influence is exerted very little:* Focus Group people may have a say, but it is unlikely that they will get their way.
- *Influence is practically never exerted:* Focus Group people are essentially excluded from decision making.

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

Many works in sociolinguistics and anthropological linguistics have presented data and analyses on linguistic variation as a means of negotiating power in situations where social hierarchies exist. For example, the common finding that women are more likely than men to speak standard varieties is analysed as a linguistic means of accessing social power (see [Romaine](#source-Romaine2008) [2008](#source-Romaine2008); [Rau et al.](#source-RauEtAl2009) [2009](#source-RauEtAl2009) for the Yami of Taiwan).

The power associated with the variety may be related to so-called *overt prestige* in formal domain, such as the workplace. Power may also pertain to locally meaningful forms of influence, as is stated in the notion of *covert prestige* ([Trudgill](#source-Trudgill1972a) [1972](#source-Trudgill1972a); [Dodsworth](#source-Dodsworth2011) [2011](#source-Dodsworth2011) in the context of social class). In this case, the hierarchies may not be those pertaining to formal institutions and economic power, but valuing certain social meanings over others (e.g. [Salmon & Gómez Menjivar](#source-SalmonGomezMenjivar2016) [2016](#source-SalmonGomezMenjivar2016) on Belizean Kriol; [Toribio](#source-Toribio2000) [2000](#source-Toribio2000) on Dominican Republic Spanish). The key here is some conceptualisation of “better” vs “lesser” along some value axis.

Linguistic behaviours appear to be strongly affected when localised power differences exist between speakers of certain linguistic groups. For example, language stigmatisation is a characteristic of places where there is some kind of superior/inferior relationship stemming from economic, political, and other kinds of social power. Language shift often occurs when minority languages are viewed as being of lower prestige (cf. [Loureiro-Rodriguez et al.](#source-Loureiro-RodriguezEtAl2013) [2013](#source-Loureiro-RodriguezEtAl2013); [Potowski](#source-Potowski2013) [2013](#source-Potowski2013)). On the other hand, places that have relatively similar kinds of powers in various domains have been observed as having egalitarian attitudes towards other languages, which in turn sustain environments conducive to multilingualism (e.g. [Singer & Harris](#source-SingerHarris2016) [2016](#source-SingerHarris2016) for Aboriginal northern Australia; [François](#source-Francois2012) [2012](#source-Francois2012) for Vanuatu). In this sense, this question is closely tied to the B-set of questions in this questionnaire (BA, BH, BI), which asks about speakers' beliefs and attitudes towards languages.
## References

- <a id="source-Dodsworth2011"> </a>Dodsworth, Robin. 2011. Social Class. 192–207. London: SAGE. doi: [10.4135/9781446200957.n15](https://doi.org/10.4135/9781446200957.n15).
- <a id="source-Francois2012"> </a>François, Alexandre. 2012. The Dynamics of Linguistic Diversity: Egalitarian Multilingualism and Power Imbalance among Northern Vanuatu Languages. _International Journal of the Sociology of Language_ 214. 85–110.
- <a id="source-Potowski2013"> </a>Potowski, Kim. 2013. Language Maintenance and Shift. In Bayley, Robert and Cameron, Richard and Lucas, Ceil (eds.), _The Oxford Handbook of Sociolinguistics_, 321–339. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
- <a id="source-Loureiro-RodriguezEtAl2013"> </a>Loureiro-Rodriguez, Veronica, May M. Boggess & Anne Goldsmith. 2013. Language Attitudes in Galicia: Using the Matched-Guise Test among High School Students. _Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development_ 34(2). 136–153. doi: [10.1080/01434632.2012.729591](https://doi.org/10.1080/01434632.2012.729591).
- <a id="source-RauEtAl2009"> </a>Rau, D. Victoria, Hui-Huan Ann Chang & Maa-Neu Dong. 2009. A Tale of Two Diphthongs in an Indigenous Minority Language: Yami of Taiwan. In Stanford, James N. and Preston, Dennis R. (eds.), _Variation in Indigenous Minority Languages_, 259–280. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
- <a id="source-Romaine2008"> </a>Romaine, Suzanne. 2008. Variation in Language and Gender. In Holmes, Janet and Meyerhoff, Miriam (eds.), _The Handbook of Language and Gender_, 98–118. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
- <a id="source-SalmonGomezMenjivar2016"> </a>Salmon, William & Jennifer Gómez Menjivar. 2016. Language Variation and Dimensions of Prestige in Belizean Kriol. _Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages_ 31(2). 316–360. doi: [10.1075/jpcl.31.2.04sal](https://doi.org/10.1075/jpcl.31.2.04sal).
- <a id="source-SingerHarris2016"> </a>Singer, Ruth & Salome Harris. 2016. What Practices and Ideologies Support Small-Scale Multilingualism? A Case Study of Warruwi Community, Northern Australia. _International Journal of the Sociology of Language_ 2016(241). 163–208. doi: [10.1515/ijsl-2016-0029](https://doi.org/10.1515/ijsl-2016-0029).
- <a id="source-Toribio2000"> </a>Toribio, Almeida Jacqueline. 2000. Language Variation and the Linguistic Enactment of Identity among Dominicans. _Linguistics_ 38(370). 1133–1159. doi: [10.1515/ling.2000.023](https://doi.org/10.1515/ling.2000.023).
- <a id="source-Trudgill1972a"> </a>Trudgill, Peter. 1972. Sex , Covert Prestige and Linguistic Change in the Urban British English of Norwich. _Language in Society_ 1(2). 179–195.
