# I1: What language do Neighbour Group people typically speak when interacting with Focus Group people in domain X?

Authors: Eri Kashima and Francesca Di Garbo and Kaius Sinnemäki
- The Focus Group language
- The Neighbour Group language
- Some other language
- This is highly contextual

## Goal

This question is asking about the input a Focus Group person receives from Neighbour Group people in a given social domain. We may surmise that if a Focus Group are exposed to the Neighbour Group language through this domain, they will have opportunities to comprehend or produce the Neighbour language.

It is also an indirect measure of asymmetries characterising the contact situation. For instance, if, on average, Neighbour Group people are likely to use the Focus Group language in interactions with Focus Group people, this can be an indication of contextual and/or more fundamental asymmetries in the social dynamics between the two groups within the contact situation at stake.

## Definitions

- *The Focus Group language/The Neighbour Group language/Some other language*: So-called monolingual modes of interaction. These options are mutually exclusive, that is, if more than one language is used in interaction, please select the fourth option, "This is highly contextual”.
- *This is highly contextual*: encompasses interaction in which more than one language is used, including but not limited to phenomena that come under the umbrella terms "code-switching" and/or "code-mixing".

## Theoretical Support

The amount and type of linguistic input an individual receives has a direct consequence on an individual's linguistic output. Points of contention regarding input include how the input is processed into acquisition (see [Barcroft and Wong](#source-BarcroftWong2012) [2012](#source-BarcroftWong2012) in the context of second language acquisition), and what constitutes an adequate threshold for input to lead to acquisition; that, the role of frequency.

There is much discussion around kinds of frequency (e.g. type vs token, relative vs absolute) and how these frequencies affect different kinds of linguistic structures, (see [Lieven](#source-Lieven2010) [2010](#source-Lieven2010)). The interaction of frequency with other factors such as salience and communicative intent are also a complicating factor in understanding the role of frequency. What remains consistent throughout the fine-grained discussion, however, is the consensus that frequency plays a role in how humans build models of linguistic systems. Frequency is relevant in both first and second language acquisitions (see Ambridge et al 2015 for the former, [Gass](#source-Gass2018) [2018](#source-Gass2018) for the latter), learning sociolinguistic variation (see [Ellis](#source-Ellis2002) [2002](#source-Ellis2002): 170-3), and grammaticalisation ([Bybee and Hopper](#source-BybeeHopper2001) [2001](#source-BybeeHopper2001), [Bybee](#source-Bybee2003) [2003](#source-Bybee2003)).

Input and frequency are both related to humans' ability for statistical learning.
Evidence suggests that statistical learning models can account for language acquisition from infants through to adults (see Erickson & Thiessen2015). Different models of statistical learning will emphasise different learning mechanisms, but all acknowledge the roles of linguistic input, frequency, variability, distribution, and co-occurrence probabilities.

## References

- <a id="source-BarcroftWong2012"> </a>Barcroft, Joe & Wynne Wong. 2012. Input, Input Processing and Focus on Form. In Herschensohn, Julia and Young-Scholten, Martha (eds.), _The Cambridge Handbook of Second Language Acquisition_, 627–647. 1st edn. Cambridge University Press. doi: [10.1017/CBO9781139051729.036](https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9781139051729.036).
- <a id="source-Bybee2003"> </a>Bybee, Joan L. 2003. Mechanisms of Change: The Role of Frequency. _The handbook of historical linguistics_. 602–647.
- <a id="source-BybeeHopper2001"> </a>Bybee, Joan L. & Paul J. Hopper. 2001. Introduction to Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. In, 1–24. John Benjamins Publishing Company.
- <a id="source-Ellis2002"> </a>Ellis, Nick C. 2002. Frequency Effects in Language Processing: A Review with Implications for Theories of Implicit and Explicit Language Acquisition. _Studies in Second Language Acquisition_ 24(2). 143–188. doi: [10.1017/S0272263102002024](https://doi.org/10.1017/S0272263102002024).
- <a id="source-Gass2018"> </a>Gass, Susan M. 2018. _Input, Interaction, and the Second Language Learner_. (Routledge Linguistics Classics.) New York, NY: Routledge.
- <a id="source-Lieven2010"> </a>Lieven, Elena. 2010. Input and First Language Acquisition: Evaluating the Role of Frequency. _Lingua_ 120(11). 2546–2556. doi: [10.1016/j.lingua.2010.06.005](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lingua.2010.06.005).
