# O1: What language do Focus Group people typically speak when interacting with Neighbour Group people?

Authors: Eri Kashima and Francesca Di Garbo and Kaius Sinnemäki
- The Focus Group language
- The Neighbour Group language
- Some other language
- This is highly contextual

## Goal

This question is trying to get a sense of what languages are actively spoken by Focus Group people, within the contact situation at stake.

The possible answers have been designed in order to account for the fact that linguistic interactions across time and space are often multilingual, and that multilingual interactions manifest themselves in a variety of ways, ranging from the use of a third-party language, receptive multilingual communication and contextually-governed switches between the languages shared by the people involved in interaction and within the contact situation at stake.


## Definitions

- *The Focus Group language/The Neighbour Group language/Some other language*: So-called monolingual modes of interaction. These options are mutually exclusive, that is, if more than one language is used in interaction, please select the fourth option, "This is highly contextual”.
- *This is highly contextual*: encompasses interaction in which more than one language is used, including but not limited to phenomena that come under the umbrella terms "code-switching" and/or "code-mixing".

## Theoretical Support

Language contact outcomes are theorised to be affected by the bilingualism of the speakers in the contact situation. We may posit that the more opportunities a person has to speak a target language, the more they will develop proficiencies approximating those of fluent target speakers.* This is then thought to have consequences for language contact outcomes. For example, having a large number of adult L2 learners of a language are thought to result in simplification of the target language (e.g. [Lupyan and Dale](#source-LupyanDale2010) [2010](#source-LupyanDale2010), [Bentz and Winter](#source-BentzWinter2013) [2013](#source-BentzWinter2013)), while communities with receptive/reciprocal multilingualism can maintain linguistic differences across various levels of linguistic structure ([Lüpke](#source-Lupke2016) [2016](#source-Lupke2016)).

Production of a target language is generally thought to be necessary for the acquisition of productive bilingualism.  For example some SLA studies have found than meaning-oriented communicative tasks may be more effective learning than mechanic production tasks (such as drills) (e.g. Morgan-Brown & Bowden 2006, [Toth](#source-Toth2006) [2006](#source-Toth2006)). The caveat here is that language learning outside the classroom is rarely mechanical, so the consequences of this finding on out-of-classroom language contact is unclear.

SLA research has also found evidence to suggest that input alone may be superior production tasks in the classroom (e.g. [Farley](#source-Farley2004) [2004](#source-Farley2004)). Proponents of this perspective, however, emphasise that input is "necessary for acquisition" but not ‘‘sufficient for developing the ability to use language in a communicative context’’ (Lee & VanPatten, 2003, p. 168, emphasis original). That is, if one is to be an active bilingual, input alone is insufficient for learning. This perspective aligns with a broad characterisation of receptive bilingualism ([Rehbein et al.](#source-RehbeinEtAl2012) [2012](#source-RehbeinEtAl2012)) where a person may have good levels of comprehension in a language without any production abilities, in part due to the exposure they have had of the other language (e.g. Gooskens 2019 for related languages; [Singer and Harris](#source-SingerHarris2016) [2016](#source-SingerHarris2016) for unrelated languages in northern Australia).

Another caveat is that many SLA studies are based around classroom learning, where the target is often a "native-like" level of accuracy and fluency. It is not clear whether this kind of goal is common across the  diversity of multilingual communities, nor is it clear what this kind of goal has on the production of the target language.

## References

- <a id="source-SingerHarris2016"> </a>Singer, Ruth & Salome Harris. 2016. What Practices and Ideologies Support Small-Scale Multilingualism? A Case Study of Warruwi Community, Northern Australia. _International Journal of the Sociology of Language_ 2016(241). 163–208. doi: [10.1515/ijsl-2016-0029](https://doi.org/10.1515/ijsl-2016-0029).
- <a id="source-BentzWinter2013"> </a>Bentz, Christian & Bodo Winter. 2013. Languages with More Second Language Learners Tend to Lose Nominal Case. _Language Dynamics and Change_ 3(1). 1–27. doi: [10.1163/22105832-13030105](https://doi.org/10.1163/22105832-13030105).
- <a id="source-Farley2004"> </a>Farley, Andrew P. 2004. The Relative Effects of Processing Instruction and Meaning-Based Output Instruction. In VanPatten, Bill (ed.), _Processing Instruction: Theory, Research, and Commentary_, 143–168. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
- <a id="source-Lupke2016"> </a>Lüpke, Friederike. 2016. Uncovering Small-Scale Multilingualism. _Critical Multilingualism Studies_ 4(2). 35–74.
- <a id="source-LupyanDale2010"> </a>Lupyan, Gary & Rick Dale. 2010. Language Structure Is Partly Determined by Social Structure. _PLoS ONE_ 5(1).
- <a id="source-RehbeinEtAl2012"> </a>Rehbein, Jochen, Jan D. Ten Thije & Anna Verschik. 2012. Lingua Receptiva (LaRa) – Remarks on the Quintessence of Receptive Multilingualism. _International Journal of Bilingualism_ 16(3). 248–264. doi: [10.1177/1367006911426466](https://doi.org/10.1177/1367006911426466).
- <a id="source-Toth2006"> </a>Toth, Paul D. 2006. Processing Instruction and a Role for Output in Second Language Acquisition. _Language Learning_ 56(2). 319–385. doi: [10.1111/j.0023-8333.2006.00349.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0023-8333.2006.00349.x).
