# O2: Do Focus Group people typically simplify their language when speaking with Neighbour Group people?

Authors: Francesca Di Garbo and Eri Kashima
- Yes
- No
- This is highly contextual

## Goal

In this question we wish to get a sense of whether simplification in speech occurs when speakers deduce comprehension issues from their interlocutor. This phenomena is sometimes described as *foreigner-directed speech* (FDS).

We interpret the absence of FDS as one way of inferring that the people in the Neighbour Group comprehend the language of the Focus Group well enough.

The answer to this question is treated as one of a number of factors that play a role in affecting the outcomes of language change. The factor by itself is likely unable to affect outcomes, but in combination with other factors, is thought to play a role.


## Definitions

*Foreigner-directed speech (FDS)* is a type of simplified speech that “native speakers” of a language direct at “non-native speakers”.

One way to infer foreigner-directed speech is by thinking about any relevant characteristics of child-directed speech in the community (e.g. frequent use of imperatives as documented for Swahili (Atlantic-Congo, cf. [Deen](#source-Deen2005) [2005](#source-Deen2005)) and Murrinhpatha (Southern Daly, cf. [Forshaw et al.](#source-ForshawEtAl2017) [2017](#source-ForshawEtAl2017)) and whether they happen to occur in interactions between Focus and Neighbour Group in this domain, and from the perspective of the Focus Group.


## Examples

Features of English FDS include:

- omission of inflectional marking ([Ferguson](#source-Ferguson1975) [1975](#source-Ferguson1975))
- redundancy (e.g. via reduplication) ([Ferguson](#source-Ferguson1975) [1975](#source-Ferguson1975))
- lexical substitution ([Ferguson](#source-Ferguson1975) [1975](#source-Ferguson1975))
- hyperarticulation of vowels ([Uther et al.](#source-UtherEtAl2007) [2007](#source-UtherEtAl2007))
- use of “or-choice” questions ([Hatch](#source-Hatch1978) [1978](#source-Hatch1978))
- preference for left-dislocation ([Hatch et al.](#source-HatchEtAl1978) [1978](#source-HatchEtAl1978)).
- Discourse structure differences have also been found between native English speaker dyads as compared with native speaker and non-native speaker dyads ([Long](#source-Long1981) [1981](#source-Long1981)).

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

“Proportion of adult learners” is a factor that is sometimes raised in discussions of language contact and change. The implication is that these adult learners are “incomplete learners” of the language under investigation. An important component of this “incomplete learner” picture is, then, what input these adult learners are receiving, and how they are learning. This question aims to touch upon this by raising the issue of FDS.

A classic study on similarities between foreigner- and child-directed speech based on English is [Uther et al.](#source-UtherEtAl2007) ([2007](#source-UtherEtAl2007)). The similarities reported in this and similar studies are, however, far from universal. In the Kaluli speech community of Papua New Guinea, for instance, simplification patterns in child-directed speech are purposely avoided because considered to be detrimental to effective language acquisition ([Schieffelin](#source-Schieffelin1990) [1990](#source-Schieffelin1990)). A recent study which brings cross-linguistic corpus evidence in support of the idea that foreigner-directed (written) speech is simpler than native-directed (written) speech is [Berdicevskis](#source-Berdicevskis2020) ([2020](#source-Berdicevskis2020)).

## References

- <a id="source-Berdicevskis2020"> </a>Berdicevskis, Aleksandrs. 2020. Foreigner-Directed Speech Is Simpler than Native-Directed: Evidence from Social Media. In _Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Natural Language Processing and Computational Social Science_, 163–172. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: [10.18653/v1/2020.nlpcss-1.18](https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.nlpcss-1.18).
- <a id="source-Deen2005"> </a>Deen, Kamil Ud. 2005. Productive Agreement in Swahili: Against a Piecemeal Approach. In Brugos, Alejna and Clark-Cotton, Manuella R. and Ha, Seungwan (eds.), _Proceedings to the 29th Boston University Conference on Language Development_. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
- <a id="source-Ferguson1975"> </a>Ferguson, Charles A. 1975. Toward a Characterization of English Foreigner Talk. _Anthropological Linguistics_ 17(1). 1–14.
- <a id="source-ForshawEtAl2017"> </a>Forshaw, Bill, Lucinda Davidson, Barbara Kelly, Rachel Nordlinger, Gillian Wigglesworth & Joe Blythe. 2017. The Acquisition of Murrinhpatha (Northern Australia). In Fortescue, Michael and Mithun, Marianne and Evans, Nicholas (eds.), _The Oxford Handbook of Polysynthesis_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi: [10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199683208.013.27](https://doi.org/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199683208.013.27).
- <a id="source-HatchEtAl1978"> </a>Hatch, Evelyn, R. Shapira & Jessica Gough. 1978. “Foreigner-Talk” Discourse. _ITL - International Journal of Applied Linguistics_ 39(1). 39–60. doi: [10.1075/itl.39-40.03hat](https://doi.org/10.1075/itl.39-40.03hat).
- <a id="source-Hatch1978"> </a>Hatch, Evelyn. 1978. Discourse Analysis and Second Language Acquisition. In Hatch, Evelyn (ed.), _Second Language Acquisition: A Book of Readings_, 401–435. Rowley, Mass: Newbuty House.
- <a id="source-Long1981"> </a>Long, Michael. 1981. Questions in Foreigner Talk Discourse. _Language Learning_ 31(1). 135–157.
- <a id="source-Schieffelin1990"> </a>Schieffelin, Bambi B. 1990. _The Give and Take of Everyday Life: Language Socialization of Kaluli Children_. (Studies in the Social and Cultural Foundations of Language, 9.) Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
- <a id="source-UtherEtAl2007"> </a>Uther, M., M. A. Knoll & D. Burnham. 2007. Do You Speak E-NG-L-I-SH? A Comparison of Foreigner- and Infant-Directed Speech. _Speech Communication_ 49(1). 2–7. doi: [10.1016/j.specom.2006.10.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.specom.2006.10.003).
