# P1: Is domain X a relevant domain of contact between Focus Group and Neighbour Group?

Authors: Francesca Di Garbo and Eri Kashima

## Goal

This question first establishes whether the social domain is a locus of social contact between the Focus Group and Neighbour Group. If there is no social contact in this domain, respondents will skip this portion of the questionnaire.


## Definitions

For the purposes of this project, language contact is defined as *social contact* in a broad psychological and socio-cultural setting ([Weinreich](#source-Weinreich1953) [1953](#source-Weinreich1953)). Language contact is a phenomenon that occurs in interactions between individuals who are bi- or multilingual to varying extents. In other words, both the individual speaker and their socio-cultural context are requisites for language contact. We follow the understanding that bilingual speakers are at the heart of any given contact scenario ([Myers-Scotton](#source-Myers-Scotton2005) [2005](#source-Myers-Scotton2005); [Matras](#source-Matras2009) [2009](#source-Matras2009); [Muysken](#source-Muysken2013) [2013](#source-Muysken2013); [Li & Zhu](#source-LiZhu2013) [2013](#source-LiZhu2013); [Winford](#source-Winford2013) [2013](#source-Winford2013); [de Bot & Bülow](#source-deBotBulow2020) [2020](#source-deBotBulow2020)). Additionally, we view bilingual speakers as active participants in their socio-cultural environments ([Aikhenvald](#source-Aikhenvald2007) [2007](#source-Aikhenvald2007); [Pfänder & Siegel](#source-PfanderSiegel2015) [2015](#source-PfanderSiegel2015); [Yakpo](#source-Yakpo2020) [2020](#source-Yakpo2020)).

## References

- <a id="source-Yakpo2020"> </a>Yakpo, Kofi. 2020. Social Factors. In Amadou, Evangelina and Matras, Yaron (eds.), 129–148. Oxon, UK: Routledge.
- <a id="source-Aikhenvald2007"> </a>Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. 2007. Grammars in Contact. A Cross-Linguistic Perspective. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and Dixon, R. M. W. (eds.), _Grammars in Contact: A Cross-Linguistic Perspective_, 1–66. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
- <a id="source-deBotBulow2020"> </a>Bot, Kees de & Lars Bülow. 2020. Cognitive Factors of Language Contact. In Adamou, Evangelia and Matras, Yaron (eds.), _The Routledge Handbook of Language Contact_, 168–184. London: Routledge. doi: [10.4324/9781351109154-12](https://doi.org/10.4324/9781351109154-12).
- <a id="source-LiZhu2013"> </a>Li, Wei & Hua Zhu. 2013. Translanguaging Identities and Ideologies: Creating Transnational Space Through Flexible Multilingual Practices Amongst Chinese University Students in the UK. _Applied Linguistics_ 34(5). 516–535. doi: [10.1093/applin/amt022](https://doi.org/10.1093/applin/amt022).
- <a id="source-Matras2009"> </a>Matras, Yaron. 2009. _Language Contact_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
- <a id="source-Muysken2013"> </a>Muysken, Pieter. 2013. Language Contact Outcomes as the Result of Bilingual Optimization Strategies. _Bilingualism_ 16(4). 709–730. doi: [10.1017/S1366728912000727](https://doi.org/10.1017/S1366728912000727).
- <a id="source-Myers-Scotton2005"> </a>Myers-Scotton, Carol. 2005. _Multiple Voices: An Introduction to Bilingualism_. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
- <a id="source-PfanderSiegel2015"> </a>Pfänder, Stefan & Jeff Siegel. 2015. The Early Years of Language Contact. _Journal of Language Contact_ 8(1). 1–12. doi: [10.1163/19552629-00801001](https://doi.org/10.1163/19552629-00801001).
- <a id="source-Weinreich1953"> </a>Weinreich, Uriel. 1953. _Languages in Contact: Findings and Problems_. The Hague: Mouton.
- <a id="source-Winford2013"> </a>Winford, Donald. 2013. In Search of a Unified Model of Language Contact. _Bilingualism_ 16(4). 734–736. doi: [10.1017/S1366728913000230](https://doi.org/10.1017/S1366728913000230).
