# P4: What other languages, if any, are spoken in domain X?

Authors: Francesca Di Garbo and Eri Kashima

## Goal

Through this question we wish to gain an understanding of the array of languages in use within a given social domain, beyond the two languages of interest. We are aware that the analysis of contact situation through the sets we propose has limitations. For instance, contact influence on the Focus Group languages may come from other languages than those selected as Neighbour Group languages in a given set. This question asked so that we can have some awareness of what other languages may have influenced the Focus Group language.


## Examples

- See support below.

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

The northwestern Cameroonian region of Lower Fungom shows very high degrees of linguistic diversity. As many as seven languages are associated with the thirteen villages recognised for the area, and speakers’ linguistic repertoires are considerably fluid ([Di Carlo & Good](#source-DiCarloGood2014) [2014](#source-DiCarloGood2014); [Di Carlo et al.](#source-DiCarloEtAl2019) [2019](#source-DiCarloEtAl2019)). In this situation, there are a large number of other languages that could be of consequence for the structures of the Focus Group language. The same applies to the highly multilingual regions of Northern Australia, such as the Warruwi Community ([Singer](#source-Singer2018) [2018](#source-Singer2018)), and to the Vaupés in Northern Amazonia ([Epps](#source-Epps2018) [2018](#source-Epps2018)).

Even beyond small-scale multilingual settings, contact between pairs of unrelated languages may additionally feature the use of lingua francas and languages of wider communication, as is currently the case of English for many parts of the world.

## References

- <a id="source-DiCarloEtAl2019"> </a>Di Carlo, Pierpaolo, Jeff Good & Rachel Ojong Diba. 2019. Multilingualism in Rural Africa. In _Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Linguistics_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi: [10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.227](https://doi.org/10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.227).
- <a id="source-Epps2018"> </a>Epps, Patience. 2018. Contrasting Linguistic Ecologies: Indigenous and Colonially Mediated Language Contact in Northwest Amazonia. _Language and Communication_ 62(B). 156–169.
- <a id="source-Singer2018"> </a>Singer, Ruth. 2018. A Small Speech Community with Many Small Languages: The Role of Receptive Multilingualism in Supporting Linguistic Diversity at Warruwi Community (Australia). _Language and Communication_ 62. 102–118.
- <a id="source-DiCarloGood2014"> </a>Di Carlo, Pierpaolo & Jeff Good. 2014. What Are We Trying to Preserve? Diversity, Change, and Ideology at the Edge of the Cameroonian Grassfields. In Austin, Peter K. and Sallabank, Julia (eds.), _Endangered Languages: Beliefs and Ideologies in Language Documentation and Revitalization_, 229–262. British Academy.
