# [](ContributionTable?__template__=property.md&property=name#cldf:S7)

Authors: [](ContributionTable?__template__=property.md&property=contributor#cldf:S7)
- Almost everyone
- many people
- some people
- few people
- almost no one


## Goal

The purpose of this question is to seek a rough estimate of how thoroughly the social network of the Neighbour Group people has opportunities for social contact with the Focus Group in this domain. The more the social network is affected by contact, the more likely there are also different kinds of contact effects on language affected, for instance, by accommodation or code-switching. Those effects can depend on other things asked in this questionnaire, such as the language used in social contact.


## Definitions

- *Total Focus/Neighbour Group people:* the net population of Neighbour Group speakers, including those who are not immediately involved in this domain.


The scale is as follows:

- *Almost everyone*: A very high proportion, estimating roughly 90% or more of the total population
- *Many people*: A fairly high proportion, the majority of the Focus Group people, estimating around 66% of the total population
- *Some people*: An intermediate proportion, roughly 50% of the Focus Group total population have opportunities for contact with Neighbour Group people.
- *Few people*: A fairly low proportion, a minority of the people in the Focus Group, estimating around 33% of the total population
- *Almost no one:* A very low proportion, estimating 10% or less of the total population

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

In earlier cross-linguistic research population size (e.g. [Lupyan & Dale](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:LupyanDale2010) [2010](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:LupyanDale2010)) and the proportion of second language speakers in the speech community (e.g. [Bentz & Winter](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:BentzWinter2013) [2013](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:BentzWinter2013)) have been used as proxies for language contact effects in language change or as a factor affecting the rate of language change. However, these approximations are problematic (see e.g. [Greenhill](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:Greenhill2014) [2014](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:Greenhill2014) for rate of change).

First, while proportion of second language speakers is perhaps a more direct way for measuring language contact compared to population size, it is not a consistent measure. For instance, similarly high proportions of L2 speakers may represent sociolinguistic situations that are very different from one another, one representing a situation where the language is used as a lingua franca and the other a situation in which the younger generation is learning the language of the elders (e.g. [Sinnemäki & Di Garbo](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:SinnemakiDiGarbo2018) [2018](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:SinnemakiDiGarbo2018)). For this reason, it is difficult to connect proportion of second language speakers consistently to a mechanism of language change. Second, population size should not be used as a proxy for contact effects, because it does not correlate even with proportion of second language speakers ([Sinnemäki & Di Garbo](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:SinnemakiDiGarbo2018) [2018](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:SinnemakiDiGarbo2018)). Third, researchers are divided over how population size affects rate of language change ([Greenhill](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:Greenhill2014) [2014](sources.bib?ref&with_internal_ref_link&keep_label#cldf:Greenhill2014): 562–564). There seems to be some consensus that population size affects rather of language change but there is no consensus as to how, meaning that it is not clear what the effect of population size would be.

This question is thus related to the issue of population size as a factor that affects language change, and linguistic structure. But because of the difficulty of defining the effect of population size, this question taps into the issue of group size by narrowing “the population” down to the people who are the likely innovators and/or transmitters of linguistic innovation in social contact.
## References

[References](Source?cited_only&with_link#cldf:__all__)