# T10: What language do children typically speak with their Neighbour Group parent? (DFK23)

Authors: Kayleigh Karinen
- The Focus Group language
- The Neighbour Group language
- Some other language
- This is highly contextual


## Goal

This question seeks to understand what languages Focus Group parents may speak with their children. The goal is to examine and understand family linguistic practices in multilingual, language contact contexts with an eye towards transmission across generations.


## Definitions

- *The Focus Group language/The Neighbour Group language/Some other language:* So-called monolingual modes of interaction. These options are mutually exclusive; that is, if more than one language is used in interaction, please select the fourth option, "This is highly contextual.”
- *This is highly contextual:* encompasses interaction in which more than one language is used, including but not limited to phenomena that come under the umbrella terms "code-switching" or "code-mixing.”
- *Parent:* For this study, we define the parent as the guardians or adults who are the primary caretakers of the child. We look to understand family linguistic practices better, and thus it is crucial to understand the input children receive from their primary caregivers. In addition, we recognize that family practices vary across communities/cultures. For these reasons, we want to clarify that the adults responsible for taking care of a child on a day-to-day basis will be considered the parents in these contexts.
- *Language dominance:* The concept that a bilingual individual expresses themselves with more ease in one of the two languages in their linguistic repertoire. Language dominance is understood in relation to language proficiency. The dominant language is one that one unofficially recognizes as the language in which one possesses higher proficiency based on language preference and can be measured with Mean Length of Utterance (MLU) which is expected to be higher in the more dominant language ([Yip & Matthews](#source-YipMatthews2006) [2006](#source-YipMatthews2006); 2007).

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

Consider the following scenario, a home environment consisting of a Cantonese-speaking, Focus Group parent and an English-speaking, Neighbour group parent together with their child(ren) in Hong Kong.
*This is highly contextual:* [Yip & Matthews](#source-YipMatthews2007) ([2007](#source-YipMatthews2007)) studied children’s linguistic development among several children (three of their own) who have been exposed to Cantonese and English regularly since birth. Hong Kong is 90% Cantonese-speaking which clearly means a child will be more highly exposed to Cantonese in their local community as opposed to English. Hong Kong’s linguistic policies state “‘biliterate and trilingual’, speaking Cantonese, Putonghua and English and being literate in both English and standard written Chinese” ([Yip & Matthews](#source-YipMatthews2007) [2007](#source-YipMatthews2007): 9). Thus, making this case study a language contact case study that helps us to understand language transmission with bilingual parents from both the Focus and Neighbour Group speech communities.

While the parents speak their respective language with their children, Cantonese is the dominant language due to their surroundings favoring Cantonese. Bilingualism is multi-faceted and fluctuates throughout a child’s development. Yip & Matthews’ discuss the time of “language silence”, the period when a child understands a language but does not necessarily possess the capacity to respond in one of their two home languages. This period varies from child to child. While developing both languages, Yip and Matthews report that one child would not respond to English and if the child did respond it was with one word, while one of the other children would occasionally respond to English utterances (both with father and outside investigator) in Cantonese ([Yip & Matthews](#source-YipMatthews2007) [2007](#source-YipMatthews2007): 81). We understand that children grow up with varying degrees of competency in their multilingual home settings and the study by Yip and Matthews reveals that the language that the child uses with their English-speaking (neighbour) parent varies throughout development.

In addition, code-mixing was regularly witnessed throughout the research. It was relatively common for the children to put English items into their Cantonese speech. It was less common, however, for Cantonese to enter the English speech ([Yip & Matthews](#source-YipMatthews2007) [2007](#source-YipMatthews2007): 83). The authors have no evidence that the code-mixing is a result of growing up bilingual as these speech preferences can also be a result of the input they receive from adults in their community in which Cantonese features English verbs and lexical elements (ibid.). A child displays language dominance and in this case in Cantonese. Over the years of crucial development, the utterances toward the Neighbour Parent can vary greatly. It is understood that the child will pass through a phase of “language silence” when their less dominant language is understood but not utilized much. While the child’s languages are developing they may respond with code-mixing, and as their language develops further, it is assumed they will continue code-mixing but at a lower rate. In this situation, where the linguistic choices of the child speaking to their Neighbour Group parent may include code-mixing the most representative answer would be, “This is highly contextual”.


## References

- <a id="source-YipMatthews2006"> </a>Yip, Virginia & Stephen Matthews. 2006. Assessing Language Dominance in Bilingual Acquisition: A Case for Mean Length Utterance Differentials. _Language Assessment Quarterly_ 3(2). 97–116. doi: [10.1207/s15434311laq0302_2](https://doi.org/10.1207/s15434311laq0302_2).
- <a id="source-YipMatthews2007"> </a>Yip, Virginia & Stephen Matthews. 2007. _The Bilingual Child: Early Development and Language Contact_. (Cambridge Approaches to Language Contact.) Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
