# T11: Typically, how much supervision do adults provide to children in domain X?

Authors: Francesca Di Garbo
- Constant supervision
- A lot of supervision
- Some supervision
- Little supervision
- No supervision at all


## Goal

Here we are interested in adult-to-child interactions specifically, unlike question [T6](T6.md) which seeks information on sources of socialisation more generally. In this question, we wish to capture the degree of involvement of adults in children’s activities. The activities may range from play, apprenticeships of cultural practices, and other community-relevant activities.


## Definitions

- *Constant supervision* if participating in activities, children always do that in the presence of adults and under their explicit and constant guidance.
- *A lot of supervision*: if participating in activities, children mostly do that in the presence of adults and under explicit guidance.
- *Some supervision*: if participating in activities, children partially do that in the presence of adults and under explicit guidance, and partially on their own.
- *Little supervision*: if participating in activities, children mostly do that on their own, with little input and guidance from the adults.
- *No supervision at all*: children are left alone in activities.

## Examples

- *Trade:* In the context of trade, we may imagine situations in which children of various ages participate in traditional trading activities in the presence of adults as a form of apprentice and/or in order to contribute to the household’s economical activities. In such contexts, the extent to which adults guide children in performing the tasks that are assigned to them may vary, and we may surmise that more explicit guidance also involves more opportunities of child-directed linguistic interactions.

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

Participating in ‘interactional communicative frames’ is key to language learning ([Stoll](#source-Stoll2016) [2016](#source-Stoll2016): 152). However, the interactional contexts children participate in greatly vary across cultures and socio-economic environments and it has been argued that this has an impact on language/community-specific patterns of language learning and use. For instance, in the Chitang-speaking community of Nepal, adults do not typically participate in playing (and related conversational activities) with children. According to [Stoll et al.](#source-StollEtAl2012) ([2012](#source-StollEtAl2012)), this may explain the radical differences that exist between child and surrounding adult speech with respect to noun-verb ratio – Chitang-speaking children up to four years of age have a significantly higher ratio of nouns to verbs than adults.

In general, adult participation in children’s playing activities is most typical of WEIRD societies. In non-WEIRD societies children are more likely to interact with other children in the surrounding environment without any (or very little) involvement of adults ([Whitebread & Basilio](#source-WhitebreadBasilio2013) [2013](#source-WhitebreadBasilio2013)).

Beyond play, adults’ participation in activities involving children may fulfill a pedagogical function. For example, in Bali, from very early age children take part in music and dance rehearsals in the presence of adults. These training sessions prepare young children to become an integrative part of the music and dance performances that accompany many of the local ceremonial festivities ([Corona et al.](#source-CoronaEtAl2015) [2015](#source-CoronaEtAl2015)).

## References

- <a id="source-CoronaEtAl2015"> </a>Corona, Yolanda, Dewa Ayu Eka Putri & Graciela Quinteros. 2015. Children's Participation in Ceremonial Life in Bali. In _Advances in Child Development and Behavior_, 381–400. Elsevier. doi: [10.1016/bs.acdb.2015.08.002](https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.acdb.2015.08.002).
- <a id="source-Stoll2016"> </a>Stoll, Sabine. 2016. Studying Language Acquisition in Different Linguistic and Cultural Settings. In Bonvillain, Nancy (ed.), _The Routledge Handbook of Linguistic Anthropology_, 140–158. London: Routledge.
- <a id="source-StollEtAl2012"> </a>Stoll, Sabine, Balthasar Bickel, Elena Lieven, Netra P. Paudyal, Goma Banjade, Toya N. Bhatta, Martin Gaenszle, Judith Pettigrew, Ichchha Purna Rai, Manoj Rai & Novel Kishore Rai. 2012. Nouns and Verbs in Chintang: Children's Usage and Surrounding Adult Speech. _Journal of Child Language_ 39(2). 284–321. doi: [10.1017/S0305000911000080](https://doi.org/10.1017/S0305000911000080).
- <a id="source-WhitebreadBasilio2013"> </a>Whitebread, David & Marisol Basilio. 2013. Play, Culture and Creativity. In Gauntlett, D. and Thomsen, B. S. (eds.), _Cultures of Creativity_. Billund: LEGO Foundation.
