# T4: Typically, what language do Focus Group children prefer to speak with Neighbour Group adults in domain X?

Authors: Francesca Di Garbo
- The Focus Group language
- The Neighbour Group language
- Some other language
- This is highly contextual

## Goal

This question is trying to get a sense of what languages may be spoken by Focus Group children, within the contact situation at stake. The goal is to investigate possible domains of contact with an eye towards transmission across generations. The answer to this question is treated as one of a number of factors that play a role in affecting the outcomes of language change. The factor by itself is likely unable to affect outcomes, but in combination with other factors, is thought to play a role.


## Definitions

- *The Focus Group language/The Neighbour Group language/Some other language*: So-called monolingual modes of interaction. These options are mutually exclusive, that is, if more than one language is used in interaction, please select the fourth option, "This is highly contextual”.
- *This is highly contextual*: encompasses interaction in which more than one language is used, including but not limited to phenomena that come under the umbrella terms "code-switching" and/or "code-mixing".

## Examples

- *This is highly contextual*: In communities practicing linguistic exogamy, children’s language choices largely depend on the language identity of the parents and the direction of the social exchange between the intermarrying groups, as defined by the marriage relationship. In many traditional Northern Australian language ecologies, for instance, children learned the mothers’ patrilect first (which they would use with their mothers and the members of her clan/band of origin), and only at the later stage did they switch to their father’s patrilect, which would also be the main language of interaction in the child’s local community ([Heath](#source-Heath1981) [1981](#source-Heath1981); [Johnson](#source-Johnson1991) [1991](#source-Johnson1991); [Stanford](#source-Stanford2008) [2008](#source-Stanford2008)). In this type of situation, where children’s language choices are the result of age-graded language socialization practices that are in turn connected with highly codified marriage patterns, the most appropriate answer to this question would be “This is highly contextual”.

## Theoretical & Empirical Support

Research on bilingual language acquisition demonstrates that bilingual children show the ability to tailor their own choice of language to the interlocutors’ native language and/or language of choice from the very early stages of language development, that is, approximately, from around their second year of life ([Mishina-Mori](#source-Mishina-Mori2011) [2011](#source-Mishina-Mori2011): 3122, and references therein).

In addition, research in language acquisition and socialization indicates that from a relatively early age children show awareness of cultural and language-specific communicative practices of their linguistic and social environment. For instance, Davison (2018) reports that, in the Murrinhpatha speech community of Northern Australia, traditional *kardu-thipman*categories (a complex system of categorization which situates aboriginal people in relation to the land and to other entities within the land, and regulates patterns of social interaction between adults) are used in children’s peer-talk already at age 3-4, as a means to identify and organise people in their own speech. This presupposes some degree of understanding of observed adult interactional behavior (Davison 2018: 221). Using 4-5 years of age as a cut-off point for this question adds a buffer to the relevant time frames suggested in the literature on child language acquisition.

## References

- <a id="source-Heath1981"> </a>Heath, Jeffrey. 1981. A Case of Intensive Lexical Diffusion: Arnhem Land, Australia. _Language_ 57(2). 335. doi: [10.2307/413694](https://doi.org/10.2307/413694).
- <a id="source-Johnson1991"> </a>Johnson, Steve. 1991. Social Parameters of Linguistic Change in an Unstratified Aboriginal Society. In Baldi, Philip (ed.), _Patterns of Change - Change of Patterns_, 203–218. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton. doi: [10.1515/9783110871890.203](https://doi.org/10.1515/9783110871890.203).
- <a id="source-Mishina-Mori2011"> </a>Mishina-Mori, Satomi. 2011. A Longitudinal Analysis of Language Choice in Bilingual Children: The Role of Parental Input and Interaction. _Journal of Pragmatics_ 43(13). 3122–3138. doi: [10.1016/j.pragma.2011.03.016](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pragma.2011.03.016).
- <a id="source-Stanford2008"> </a>Stanford, James N. 2008. Child Dialect Acquisition: New Perspectives on Parent/Peer Influence. _Journal of Sociolinguistics_ 12(5). 567–596. doi: [10.1111/j.1467-9841.2008.00383.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9841.2008.00383.x).
