# T6: Child socialisation and care in domain X

Authors: Francesca Di Garbo

## Goal

This question tells us about the likely sources of input in the acquisition of one or several languages. Through this question, we aim to get a glimpse of varying socialisation practices in a given social domain, and, in particular, whether these are age-segregated or not.


## Definitions

- *Peer group*: children from the same age cohort and not necessarily related by kin.
- *Sibling-kin group:* children from different age cohorts who are also related by kin.

## Examples

While in developed societies child-rearing and early socialization is, to a large extent, the responsibility of the parents, more socially distributed child-rearing styles are the default model of caregiving in many non-WEIRD cultures around the world ([Raj & Raval](#source-RajRaval2013) [2013](#source-RajRaval2013): 67). For instance, in many societies of south and south-east Asia, the social norm is that of distributed caregiving where other relatives and close friends are involved ([Kurrien & Vo](#source-KurrienVo2004) [2004](#source-KurrienVo2004): 67).

Moreover, while in modern Western societies peer socialisation is usually associated with interactions between same-age children who are not related by kin and come together through school settings, in more traditional societies, and even in Western societies beyond the school settings, e.g. the neighbourhood, older children tend to spend considerable part of their time caring for their younger kins. This fact has important implications for language socialisation (cf. [Goodwin & Kyratzis](#source-GoodwinKyratzis2011) [2011](#source-GoodwinKyratzis2011)). We acknowledge this distinction in our coding by separating socialisation within/by peer-group from socialisation within/by sibling-kin group.


## Theoretical Support

Input and interaction are fundamental to the language acquisition process ([Stoll](#source-Stoll2016) [2016](#source-Stoll2016): 141). However, the amount and type of input, as well as the amount and type of interaction that children receive and engage in while acquiring a language greatly differ across cultures and socioeconomic environments ([Stoll](#source-Stoll2016) [2016](#source-Stoll2016): 152, and references therein).

The literature on bilingual language acquisition suggests that using a language beyond the domain of parent-to-parent interaction (for instance with the extended family, cf. [Pauwels](#source-Pauwels2005) [2005](#source-Pauwels2005): 125) supports and contributes to its maintenance in the repertoire of the bilingual child. Knowing by whom children are likely to be socialised during the critical years of language development thus gives us a sense of how many opportunities of exposure to and interaction in a given language children have across social domains.

The choice of year 5 as the chronological upper end of this question’s time frame is motivated by the fact that in the literature on cognitive and language development, it is often argued that at about four years of age (or slightly earlier, i.e. around three years of age, depending on the variable/domain) children typically start showing indications of the ability to take the perspective of others both in terms of visual perception ([Flavell](#source-Flavell2004) [2004](#source-Flavell2004); [Frick et al.](#source-FrickEtAl2014) [2014](#source-FrickEtAl2014)) and linguistic behaviour. See, for instance, [Fischer](#source-Fischer1958) ([1958](#source-Fischer1958)) and [Stanford](#source-Stanford2008) ([2008](#source-Stanford2008)) on children’s ability to show understanding and control of sociolinguistic variables, and Davison (2018) on the use of culturally and language-specific terms of address/identification in child-peer talk in the Northern Australian speech community of Murrinhpatha.

Adding a buffer of one year (from 4 to 5) and asking about the child’s sources of input during the first five years of age thus gives us a hint of the contexts where children may develop an understanding of the cultural and (socio-)linguistic identities of others, which they may then express through their own communicative choices.

## References

- <a id="source-Stoll2016"> </a>Stoll, Sabine. 2016. Studying Language Acquisition in Different Linguistic and Cultural Settings. In Bonvillain, Nancy (ed.), _The Routledge Handbook of Linguistic Anthropology_, 140–158. London: Routledge.
- <a id="source-Stanford2008"> </a>Stanford, James N. 2008. Child Dialect Acquisition: New Perspectives on Parent/Peer Influence. _Journal of Sociolinguistics_ 12(5). 567–596. doi: [10.1111/j.1467-9841.2008.00383.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9841.2008.00383.x).
- <a id="source-Fischer1958"> </a>Fischer, John L. 1958. Social Influences on the Choice of a Linguistic Variant. _WORD_ 14(1). 47–56. doi: [10.1080/00437956.1958.11659655](https://doi.org/10.1080/00437956.1958.11659655).
- <a id="source-Flavell2004"> </a>Flavell, John H. 2004. Theory-of-Mind Development: Retrospect and Prospect. _Merrill-Palmer Quarterly_ 50(3). 274–290.
- <a id="source-FrickEtAl2014"> </a>Frick, Andrea, Wenke Möhring & Nora S. Newcombe. 2014. Picturing Perspectives: Development of Perspective-Taking Abilities in 4- to 8-Year-Olds. _Frontiers in Psychology_ 5. doi: [10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00386](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00386).
- <a id="source-GoodwinKyratzis2011"> </a>Goodwin, Marjorie H. & Amy Kyratzis. 2011. Peer Language Socialization. In Duranti, Alessandro and Ochs, Elinor and Schieffelin, Bambi B. (eds.), _The Handbook of Language Socialization_, 365–390. 1st edn. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell. doi: [10.1002/9781444342901.ch16](https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444342901.ch16).
- <a id="source-KurrienVo2004"> </a>Kurrien, Rahael & Easter Dawn Vo. 2004. Who's in Charge?: Coparenting in South and Southeast Asian Families. _Journal of Adult Development_ 11(3). 207–219. doi: [10.1023/B:JADE.0000035628.42529.e5](https://doi.org/10.1023/B:JADE.0000035628.42529.e5).
- <a id="source-Pauwels2005"> </a>Pauwels, Anne. 2005. Maintaining the Community Language in Australia: Challenges and Roles for Families. _International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism_ 8(2-3). 124–131. doi: [10.1080/13670050508668601](https://doi.org/10.1080/13670050508668601).
- <a id="source-RajRaval2013"> </a>Raj, Stacey P. & Vaishali V. Raval. 2013. Parenting and Family Socialization within a Cultural Context. In Anderson, Ethan L. and Thomas, Sophia (eds.), _Socialization: Theories, Processes and Impact_, 57–78. Hauppauge, N.Y: Nova Science Publisher's.
