
## D11: How much influence can the Focus Group exert in domain X?



**Goal**

By this question, we wish to investigate whether any group has the potential for greater influence over the other group(s) within this domain. Put another way, we are interested in power differences between and across groups. We take the existence of hierarchy between groups as a sign that power differences of some kind are likely to exist.



**Definitions**

- *Influence is practically always exerted:* In essence, Focus Group people alone decide the terms.
- *Influence is very much exerted*: Focus Group people will have a say, and there is a good chance that they will get their way.
- *Influence is somewhat exerted*: Focus Group people may have a say, but it is not predictable whether they will get their way.
- *Influence is exerted very little:* Focus Group people may have a say, but it is unlikely that they will get their way.
- *Influence is practically never exerted:* Focus Group people are essentially excluded from decision making.




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Many works in sociolinguistics and anthropological linguistics have presented data and analyses on linguistic variation as a means of negotiating power in situations where social hierarchies exist. For example, the common finding that women are more likely than men to speak standard varieties is analysed as a linguistic means of accessing social power (see Romaine 2008; Rau, Chang & Dong 2009 for the Yami of Taiwan).



The power associated with the variety may be related to so-called *overt prestige* in formal domain, such as the workplace. Power may also pertain to locally meaningful forms of influence, as is stated in the notion of *covert prestige* (Trudgill 1972; Dodsworth 2011 in the context of social class**)**. In this case, the hierarchies may not be those pertaining to formal institutions and economic power, but valuing certain social meanings over others (e.g. Salmon & Gómez Menjivar 2016 on Belizean Kriol; Toribio 2000 on Dominican Republic Spanish). The key here is some conceptualisation of “better” vs “lesser” along some value axis.



Linguistic behaviours appear to be strongly affected when localised power differences exist between speakers of certain linguistic groups. For example, language stigmatisation is a characteristic of places where there is some kind of superior/inferior relationship stemming from economic, political, and other kinds of social power. Language shift often occurs when minority languages are viewed as being of lower prestige (cf. Louirero-Rodriguez et al. 2012; Potowski 2013). On the other hand, places that have relatively similar kinds of powers in various domains have been observed as having egalitarian attitudes towards other languages, which in turn sustain environments conducive to multilingualism (e.g. Singer & Harris 2016 for Aboriginal northern Australia; François 2012 for Vanuatu). In this sense, this question is closely tied to the [B-set](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fsites.google.com%2Fview%2Frs210205edomains-questionnaire%2Fset-explanation%23h.3v7qaatcexos&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AOvVaw2zbaKF6-E6Qup_8u8mBv41) of questions in this questionnaire, which asks about speakers' beliefs and attitudes towards languages.

**References**


@inbook{Dodsworth2011,
  title = {Social {{Class}}},
  booktitle = {The {{SAGE Handbook}} of {{Sociolinguistics}}},
  author = {Dodsworth, Robin},
  year = {2011},
  pages = {192--207},
  publisher = {SAGE},
  address = {London},
  doi = {10.4135/9781446200957.n15},
  urldate = {2022-11-28},
  collaborator = {Wodak, Ruth and Johnstone, Barbara and Kerswill, Paul},
  isbn = {978-1-84787-095-7 978-1-4462-0095-7}
}

@article{Francois2012,
  title = {The Dynamics of Linguistic Diversity: {{Egalitarian}} Multilingualism and Power Imbalance among Northern {{Vanuatu}} Languages},
  author = {Fran{\c c}ois, Alexandre},
  year = {2012},
  journal = {International Journal of the Sociology of Language},
  volume = {214},
  pages = {85--110},
  keywords = {Banks Islands,linguistic ecology,Torres Islands,Vanuatu}
}

@incollection{Potowski2013,
  title = {Language {{Maintenance}} and {{Shift}}},
  booktitle = {The {{Oxford}} Handbook of Sociolinguistics},
  author = {Potowski, Kim},
  editor = {Bayley, Robert and Cameron, Richard and Lucas, Ceil},
  year = {2013},
  pages = {321--339},
  publisher = {Oxford University Press},
  address = {Oxford}
}

@incollection{RauEtAl2009,
  title = {A Tale of Two Diphthongs in an Indigenous Minority Language: {{Yami}} of {{Taiwan}}},
  booktitle = {Variation in {{Indigenous Minority Languages}}},
  author = {Rau, D. Victoria and Chang, Hui-Huan Ann and Dong, Maa-Neu},
  editor = {Stanford, James N. and Preston, Dennis R.},
  year = {2009},
  series = {{{IMPACT}}: {{Studies}} in {{Language}}, {{Culture}} and {{Society}}},
  number = {25},
  pages = {259--280},
  publisher = {Benjamins},
  address = {Amsterdam}
}

@incollection{Romaine2008,
  title = {Variation in {{Language}} and {{Gender}}},
  booktitle = {The Handbook of Language and Gender},
  author = {Romaine, Suzanne},
  editor = {Holmes, Janet and Meyerhoff, Miriam},
  year = {2008},
  pages = {98--118},
  publisher = {Wiley-Blackwell},
  address = {Malden, MA},
  isbn = {978-0-470-75694-2},
  keywords = {Dialectologists,Gender,Gender variation,Sociolinguistic variation,Variationist methodology}
}

@article{SalmonGomezMenjivar2016,
  title = {Language Variation and Dimensions of Prestige in {{Belizean Kriol}}},
  author = {Salmon, William and G{\'o}mez Menjivar, Jennifer},
  year = {2016},
  journal = {Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages},
  volume = {31},
  number = {2},
  pages = {316--360},
  doi = {10.1075/jpcl.31.2.04sal}
}

@article{SingerHarris2016,
  title = {What Practices and Ideologies Support Small-Scale Multilingualism? {{A}} Case Study of {{Warruwi Community}}, Northern {{Australia}}},
  author = {Singer, Ruth and Harris, Salome},
  year = {2016},
  journal = {International Journal of the Sociology of Language},
  volume = {2016},
  number = {241},
  pages = {163--208},
  doi = {10.1515/ijsl-2016-0029},
  keywords = {aboriginal languages,au,australia,australian,corresponding author,e-mail,edu,indigenous australian languages,language ideologies,melbourne,multilingualism,receptive multilingualism,rsinger,ruth singer,unimelb,university of melbourne}
}

@article{Toribio2000,
  title = {Language Variation and the Linguistic Enactment of Identity among {{Dominicans}}},
  author = {Toribio, Almeida Jacqueline},
  year = {2000},
  journal = {Linguistics},
  volume = {38},
  number = {370},
  pages = {1133--1159},
  doi = {10.1515/ling.2000.023}
}

@article{Trudgill1972a,
  title = {Sex , {{Covert Prestige}} and {{Linguistic Change}} in the {{Urban British English}} of {{Norwich}}},
  author = {Trudgill, Peter},
  year = {1972},
  journal = {Language in Society},
  volume = {1},
  number = {2},
  pages = {179--195}
}

*EK, FDG*
