## D12: How often are these speech styles typically used during practices of domain X, in comparison with unmonitored speech? 

- Always
- Sometimes
- As much as unmonitored speech
- Rarely
- Never

**Goal**

The goal is this question is to discern whether special speech styles identified in D9 form a large part of speakers linguistic output. 

**Definitions**

For the purposes of this questionnaire, we define _speech styles_ as socio-semantically informed ways of speaking (e.g. Bell 1984; Coupland 2007: 2) in contrast to unmonitored and so-called _vernacular ways of speaking_.

The term _vernacular_ in Labovian sociolinguistics is a natural speech style, in opposition to monitored or standardised speech styles (Labov 1972, cf. Coupland 2009). Coupland (2016: 410) summarises the notion of Labovian vernaculars as formally systematic, represent speaking in its most natural and least monitored conditions, and are viewed as the most consequential way of speaking for the study of language change.

**Example**

Examples of speech styles under the operational definition include:

- formal registers
- academic and legalese jargons
- the high variety in diglossic situations
- lects associated with ceremonial events
- kinship registers
- standard varieties (e.g. national standards)
- trade jargons

  
**Theoretical Support**

Language contact effects through registers are uncommon in the literature, but given that registers are associated with certain kinds of domains (such as knowledge, domain, trade, family and kin) it is possible that registers are a pathway for adopting linguistic matter/patterns.

A famous example given by Irvine and Gal (2000) summarises a number of proposed pathways of how clicks entered the Nguni languages (of the Bantu family) such as Zulu and Xhosa via contact with Khoe languages. Irvine & Gal's proposals rests on Nguni-speakers' indexing Khoe clicks as "foreign", given the absence of these phones in Bantu languages. The route of relevance here is the gradual familiarisation of speakers' to clicks via the use of an avoidance register. The avoidance register *hlophina* requires lexical replacements that allow speakers to avoid uttering words and names that are taboo. The high number of avoidance register words containing clicks suggests this as the main pathway of click adoption by Nguni-speakers. Furthermore, by virtue of clicks indexing foreignness, Nguni-speakers were able to "mobilised to express social distance and difference within" by incorporating these phones into their repertoire.As some of the avoidance words lost their respectful index overtime due to "pragmatic devaluation" (Errington 1988), these originally avoidance words became part of everyday vocabulary. Herbert (1990) suggest that the frequent use of clicks in the avoidance register (which was seemingly spoken by all adults in society) made the sounds familiar this making the wholesale adoption of Khoe words easier.

Citing a number of works, Irvine and Gal (2000) draw attention to Nguni and Khoi multilingualism. Speakers were likely multilingual in each other's languages through intermarriage, by becoming community members,  providing expertise services to one another (p.46).

Irvine and Gal's analysis presents the avoidance register as merely the entry point for clicks into the Nguni languages, and the true mechanism that caused people to use clicks in their speech was no pragmatics. It was because the avoidance register was such a large part of Nguni linguistic practice that is served as an impactful pathway for contact induced change.


**References**

@article{Bell1984,
  title = {Language Style as Audience Design},
  author = {Bell, Allan},
  year = {1984},
  journal = {Language in Society},
  volume = {13},
  number = {2},
  pages = {145--204}
}

@book{Coupland2007,
  title = {Style: {{Language Variation}} and {{Identity}}},
  author = {Coupland, Nikolas},
  year = {2007},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge, UK},
  isbn = {978-1-78347-302-1}
}

@article{Coupland2016,
  title = {Labov, Vernacularity and Sociolinguistic Change},
  author = {Coupland, Nikolas},
  year = {2016},
  journal = {Journal of Sociolinguistics},
  volume = {20},
  number = {4},
  pages = {409--430},
  doi = {10.1111/josl.12191},
  keywords = {social class,sociolinguistic change,the vernacular,vernacularisation,William Labov}
}

@book{Errington1988,
  title = {Structure and Style in {{Javanese}}},
  author = {Errington, J. Joseph},
  year = {1988},
  publisher = {University of Pennsylvania Press},
  address = {Philadeliphia}
}

@article{Herbert1990,
  title = {The {{Relative Markedness}} of {{Click Sounds}}: {{Evidence}} from {{Language Change}}, {{Acquisition}}, and {{Avoidance}}},
  author = {Herbert, Robert K.},
  year = {1990},
  journal = {Anthropological Linguistics},
  volume = {30},
  pages = {120--138}
}

@incollection{IrvineGal2000,
  title = {Language Ideology and Linguistic Differentiation},
  author = {Irvine, Judith T. and Gal, Susan},
  editor = {Kroskrity, Paul V.},
  year = {2000},
  pages = {35--84},
  publisher = {School of American Research Press},
  address = {Santa Fe, USA}
}

_EK_
