
## D3: Does involvement in domain X differ based on social categories?

The answer is a binary "yes" vs "no" for each of the following nine social categories:

- Hierarchies associated to profession or wealth, such as a person's class or caste
- Magico-religiously sanctioned group, such as religious denomination
- Descent group, such as clan, house, lineage group, kinship group
- Group of land ownership, such as tribe, clan, territorial group
- Race, ethnicity, or some other similar grouping
- Age or life stage
- A person’s place identity and affiliation
- Sex or gender
- Any other communities of practice

**Goal**

This question seeks to identify social categories that likely form distinct communities of practice within the larger societal context. Put another way, we are interested in identifying emically relevant social groups which may play a role in domain-internal linguistic variation. We use the term "communities of practice" to broadly refer to a group of people connected to one another by partaking in similar activities and/or states of being. By doing so we acknowledge the socially constructed and culturally specific nature of social categories such as gender, ethnicity, as well as acknowledging that these social categories are social practices.

We are interested in the existence of these salient social categories for a few reasons. Firstly, identifying emically relevant social categories gives us a chance to identify possible subnetworks of people within a speech community and domain. Contact situations would affect subnetworks differently, in that a single speech community experiences contact heterogeneously. For example, contact between Finnish speakers and speakers of L1 varieties of English in the domain of work is likely to be concentrated towards white-collar and other upper-middle socio-economic networks, while contact between Finnish speakers and Kurdish speakers would cover a different demographic. The complexity of social networks in any given contact situation means that there are various pathways through which linguistic innovations can diffuse (or not) through the wider speech community. Emically salient social categories often seem to be good candidates for identifying the social patterning of linguistic variation within a community. By identifying possible sub-networks, we may get a better picture of how linguistic consequences of contact may or may not diffuse through to the wider speech community.

Ideally we would want respondents to identify those social categories that are known or thought to affect linguistic production in the Focus Group (i.e. socially condition linguistic variation). However since it is unlikely that such data are available for many communities, we are going to make an evidence-based assumption that the mere emic identification of social categories makes it likely that linguistic variation and differentiation may occur along these lines. Thus we have *a priori* chosen the social categories in the possible responses with the understanding that these social categories have been found to relate to linguistic variation in various communities around the world.


**Definitions**

_Hierarchy associated with profession and wealth such as class and caste:_ The key criteria here are “hierarchy” and “associated with profession”. If this social category is also magico-religiously sanctioned, choose “yes” for the “magico-religiously sanctioned group such as caste and religious denomination”. Examples include feudal European divisions such as nobility and serf.

_Magico-religiously sanctioned group such as caste and religious denomination:_ A group whose existence and powers are justified based on spiritual/divine/non-human foundations (e.g. the clergy, Hindu caste system, ceremonial groups) and/or creed (e.g. Sunni & Shia muslims). Choose “yes” for groups that can be described as a “denomination of a religion”. If this social category overlaps with certain professions, choose “yes” also for the “Class, caste, other hierarchy group”.

_Relationships of descent:_ A group based on emically defined ways of grouping people who share ancestry and kin. Publications may refer to these groups variously as clans, kinship groups, descent groups, house systems. For moieties and similar systems, put “yes” in “Other.”

_Group of land ownership:_ A social category that, to the best of your knowledge, is primarily concerned with rights and claims of ownership and usage of territory. Membership to this social category should have some “hereditary” or “familial” requirement, so would not include purely mercantile entities. Choose “yes” if there are emically recognised names for such groups. Publications may refer to these groups variously as clans, tribes.

_Race, ethnicity, or some other kind of grouping:_ A difference based on perceived physical differences, often overlapping with perceived cultural and linguistic differences. Choose “yes” only if emic commentary on this category mentions perceived physical differences along with identification of difference in one of the following: economic system, wealth, primary subsistence pattern, major staple crop, belief system.

_Age cohort, life stage:_ A social category that is related to life stages, such as pre-initate, teenage-hood, unmarried, community elder. We are not asking if there is evidence of age-conditioned variation (i.e. a change in progress), but if there are emically salient age cohorts, which arguably form some kind of CoP.

_Place identity and affiliation:_ A type of identity that is constructed on the basis of specific places and areas. Examples of places include: places of residence such as village or neighbourhood, notions of city-folk vs farming-folk, notions of a mother country or origin place, regional identities such as Bavarian in Germany or Mid-Western American.

_Other:_ Other Communities of Practice than those listed above. For example: Moieties, cohort groups that do not fit any of the above categories, gangs, political parties, mercantile groups, clubs. Please name the Communities of Practice of relevance in the comment section.

_Sex or gender:_ Choose “yes” only if one’s assigned gender severely restricts the experience within the domain. For example, if women are excluded from participation in this domain, choose “yes”. 

**Examples**

*Sex*: What qualifies as "Yes" in this context are more extreme situations in which the possibilities of linguistic interaction between the sexes in a given social domain are highly constrained from the perspective of sociocultural practices and conceptualisations thereof. For instance, in traditional Muslim societies, possibilities of interaction between men and women across social domains are shaped by the practice of classifying people of the opposite sex as those with whom marriage is forbidden (*mahram*, e.g. a woman's father and brother) and those with whom marriage is permitted (*na-mahram*). Social and linguistic interactions with the latter group are highly constrained by this distinction across all social domains (e.g. in trade or in the neighbourhood space): "Places, both at home and in the neighbourhood, where one is likely to encounter, meet, and interact with *na-mahram* people become defined as restricted spaces for both women and men" (Mazumdar & Mazumdar 2001: 304).

For example, [in many societies women were excluded from receiving formal education / the types of work that people are involved in differ, depending on their caste/ people of differing social classes hang around in different social circles centred around different activities]. In order to qualify for a "yes" answer, the social category group should be emically significant enough to potentially have some linguistic consequences, even if it is limited solely to the people of that group (e.g. monks have their own extensively used lect, which has little linguistic effect on the wider community).

We would say for contemporary urban examples such as London, the social categories of "class", and "race/ethnicity", affect a person's experience of commerce in the city. That is, the types of commerce opportunities and situations that an upper-class person engages in would be different to that of a lower-class person; the commerce opportunities and situations are different for Anglo-British, and peoples of East Asian, South Asian, and Caribbean heritage.


**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

*Hierarchy associated with profession and wealth such as class and caste*: Class has been a staple of variationist sociolinguistic investigation since Labov (1966).

*Magico-religiously sanctioned group such as caste and religious denomination*: Variation in Arabic between Jews and Muslims of North Africa (Jastrow 1990, cited in Germanos & Miller 2015), variation between Sunni and Shia Bahrainan Arabic (Holes 1987, 1995, 2006). See Spolsky (2003) for review on religion and language contact.

*Relationships of descent*: Clan as a variable in South Western China (Stanford 2009a), paternal heritage predicting variation in Murrinh Patha (Pama-Nyungan; Australia) (Mansfield 2015).

*Race, ethnicity, or some other kind of grouping*: Whiteness in the USA (Bucholtz 2010).

*Age cohort, life stage*: Labov's (1994) model of how to interpret age from sociolinguistic corpora. Summary Sankoff (2004). Takano (2021) has found in the case of Japanese, that the production of morphosyntax and segmental phonology remain stable in post-adolescet years, but vocabulary items and prosody (e.g., lexical accents) were likely to change. Age-cohort and variation studies of English varieties: Cheshire (1982), Romaine (1984), Andersen (2001). Language variation and change across the life-span: Wagner (2012).

*Place identity and affiliation*: see Low & Lawrence-Zúñiga (2003); Johnstone (2010) from the perspective of sociolinguistics.

*Other*: Youth cultures, subcultures, and other communities of practice more broadly (Eckert 2003).

**References**

@book{Andersen2001,
  title = {Pragmatic Markers and Sociolinguistic Variation: A Relevance-Theoretic Approach to the Language of Adolescents},
  shorttitle = {Pragmatic Markers and Sociolinguistic Variation},
  author = {Andersen, Gisle},
  year = {2001},
  series = {Pragmatics and {{Beyond New Sieries}}},
  number = {84},
  publisher = {Benjamins},
  address = {Amsterdam},
  isbn = {978-90-272-5103-9 978-1-58811-018-3},
  langid = {english}
}

@book{Bucholtz2010,
  title = {White Kids: Language, Race and Styles of Youth Identity},
  shorttitle = {White Kids},
  author = {Bucholtz, Mary},
  year = {2010},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge},
  isbn = {978-0-521-87149-5 978-0-521-69204-5},
  lccn = {P120.Y68 B83 2011},
  keywords = {California,Language,Language and culture,Race identity,Teenagers,Whites,Youth White},
  annotation = {OCLC: ocn700394237}
}

@book{Cheshire1982,
  title = {Variation in an {{English}} Dialect: {{A}} Sociolinguistic Study},
  author = {Cheshire, Jenny},
  year = {1982},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge}
}

@article{Eckert2003,
  title = {Language and Adolescent Peer Groups},
  author = {Eckert, Penelope},
  year = {2003},
  journal = {Journal of Language and Social Psychology},
  volume = {22},
  number = {1},
  pages = {112--118},
  doi = {10.1177/0261927X02250063},
  keywords = {Adolescence,Identity,Language,Peer groups,Style}
}


@article{GermanosMiller2015,
  title = {Is Religious Affiliation a Key Factor of Language Variation in {{Arabic-speaking}} Countries?},
  author = {Germanos, Marie-Aim{\'e}e and Miller, Catherine},
  year = {2015},
  month = may,
  journal = {Language \& Communication},
  volume = {42},
  pages = {86--98},
  issn = {02715309},
  doi = {10.1016/j.langcom.2014.12.001},
  urldate = {2022-11-27},
  langid = {english}
}

@book{Holes1987,
  title = {Language Variation and Change in a Modernising {{Arab}} State: {{The}} Case of {{Bahrain}}},
  author = {Holes, Clive},
  year = {1987},
  series = {Library of {{Arabic Linguistics}}},
  number = {7},
  publisher = {Kegan Paul International},
  address = {London}
}

@article{Holes1995,
  title = {Community, Dialect and Urbanization in the {{Arabic-speaking Middle East}}},
  author = {Holes, Clive},
  year = {1995},
  month = jun,
  journal = {Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies},
  volume = {58},
  number = {2},
  pages = {270--287},
  issn = {0041-977X, 1474-0699},
  doi = {10.1017/S0041977X00010764},
  urldate = {2022-11-27},
  langid = {english}
}

@incollection{Holes2006,
  title = {Bahraini {{Arabic}}},
  booktitle = {Encyclopedia of {{Arabic}} Language and Linguistics, Vol. 1},
  author = {Holes, Clive},
  editor = {Versteegh, Kees and Eid, Mushira and Elgibali, Alaa and Woidich, Manfred and Zabroski, Andrzej},
  year = {2006},
  pages = {241--255},
  publisher = {Brill},
  address = {Leiden}
}

@book{Jastrow1990,
  title = {{Der arabische Dialekt der Juden von 'Aqra und Arb{\=i}l}},
  author = {Jastrow, Otto},
  year = {1990},
  series = {{Semitica Viva}},
  number = {5},
  publisher = {O. Harrassowitz},
  address = {Wiesbaden},
  isbn = {978-3-447-02950-6},
  langid = {gerara},
  lccn = {PJ5079.5.A67 J37 1990},
  keywords = {Dialects,Ethnic relations,Iraq,Iraq Aqrah,Iraq Irbil,Jews,Judeo-Arabic language,Languages,Social life and customs}
}

@incollection{Johnstone2010,
  title = {Language and {{Place}}},
  booktitle = {Cambridge Handbook of Sociolinguistics},
  author = {Johnstone, Barbara},
  editor = {Mesthrie, Rajend},
  year = {2010},
  pages = {203--218},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge},
  doi = {10.2307/j.ctt7sjpn.8}
}

@book{Labov1966,
  title = {The {{Social Stratification}} of {{English}} in {{New York City}}},
  author = {Labov, William},
  year = {1966},
  publisher = {Centre for Applied Linguistics},
  address = {Washington, DC}
}

@book{Labov1994,
  title = {Principles of {{Linguistic Change}}, {{Volume I}}: {{Internal Factors}}},
  author = {Labov, William},
  year = {1994},
  publisher = {Wiley-Blackwell},
  address = {Oxford}
}

@book{LowLawrence-Zuniga2003,
  title = {The Anthropology of Space and Place: Locating Culture},
  shorttitle = {The Anthropology of Space and Place},
  editor = {Low, Setha M. and {Lawrence-Z{\'u}{\~n}iga}, Denise},
  year = {2003},
  series = {Blackwell Readers in Anthropology},
  number = {4},
  publisher = {Wiley-Blackwell},
  address = {Malden, MA},
  isbn = {978-0-631-22877-6 978-0-631-22878-3},
  lccn = {GF50 .A55 2003},
  keywords = {Human geography,Human territoriality,Open spaces,Personal space,Public spaces,Spatial behavior}
}

@article{Mansfield2015,
  title = {Consonant Lenition as a Sociophonetic Variable in {{Murrinh Patha}} ({{Australia}})},
  author = {Mansfield, John Basil},
  year = {2015},
  journal = {Language Variation and Change},
  volume = {27},
  number = {2},
  pages = {203--225}
}

@article{MazumdarMazumdar2001,
  title = {Rethinking Public and Private Space: {{Religion}} and Women in {{Muslim}} Society},
  author = {Mazumdar, Shampa and Mazumdar, Sanjoy},
  year = {2001},
  journal = {Journal of Architectural and Planning Research},
  volume = {18},
  number = {4},
  pages = {302--324}
}

@article{Romaine1984,
  title = {On the Problem of Syntactic Variation and Pragmatic Meaning in Sociolinguistic Theory},
  author = {Romaine, Suzanne},
  year = {1984},
  journal = {Folia Linguistica},
  volume = {18},
  number = {3-4},
  pages = {409--437}
}

@incollection{Sankoff2004,
  title = {Adolescents, {{Young Adults}}, and the {{Critical Period}}: {{Two Case Studies}} from ``{{Seven Up}}''},
  booktitle = {Sociolinguistic Variation\,: {{Critical}} Reflections},
  author = {Sankoff, Gillian},
  editor = {Fought, Carment},
  year = {2004},
  pages = {121--139},
  publisher = {Oxford University Press},
  address = {Oxford}
}

@article{Spolsky2003,
  title = {Religion {{As}} a {{Site}} of {{Language Contact}}},
  author = {Spolsky, Bernard},
  year = {2003},
  journal = {Annual Review of Applied Linguistics},
  volume = {23},
  pages = {155--169},
  doi = {10.1017/s0267190503000242}
}

@incollection{Stanford2009,
  title = {Clan as a Sociolinguistic Variable: {{Three}} Approaches to {{Sui}} Clans},
  booktitle = {Variation in {{Indigenous Minority Languages}}},
  author = {Stanford, James N.},
  editor = {Stanford, James N. and Preston, Dennis R.},
  year = {2009},
  series = {{{IMPACT}}: {{Studies}} in {{Language}}, {{Culture}} and {{Society}}},
  number = {25},
  pages = {463--484},
  publisher = {Benjamins},
  address = {Amsterdam}
}

@article{Takano2021,
  title = {Lifespan ``{{Changes}} from {{Above}}'' in the {{Standardization}} of {{Japanese Regional Dialects}}: {{Levels}} of {{Grammar}}, {{Lexical Properties}} and {{Community Characteristics}}},
  shorttitle = {Lifespan ``{{Changes}} from {{Above}}'' in the {{Standardization}} of {{Japanese Regional Dialects}}},
  author = {Takano, Shoji},
  year = {2021},
  month = oct,
  journal = {Language Variation and Change},
  volume = {33},
  number = {3},
  pages = {297--329},
  issn = {0954-3945, 1469-8021},
  doi = {10.1017/S0954394521000211},
  urldate = {2024-06-27},
  langid = {english},
}

@article{Wagner2012,
  title = {Real-Time Evidence for Age Grad(Ing) in Late Adolescence},
  author = {Wagner, Suzanne Evans},
  year = {2012},
  month = jul,
  journal = {Language Variation and Change},
  volume = {24},
  number = {2},
  pages = {179--202},
  issn = {0954-3945, 1469-8021},
  doi = {10.1017/S0954394512000099},
  urldate = {2022-10-25},
  langid = {english}
}

_EK_, _FDG_
