
## D6: Domain Locations

Where do Focus Group and Neighbour Group people typically interact together? Where do Focus Group and Neighbour Group people typically interact together?



- At places which belong to the Focus Group

- At places which belong to the Neighbour Group

- At places which belong to some other group

- This is highly contextual

**Goal**

The intention of this question is to capture whether there are any social groups associated with the geographic locations and physical places where domain activity is conducted.



**Definitions**

The word “belong” in the question is intentionally under-defined so that the respondent may understand it in a way that makes sense for the community in question. If this wording is still too strong, another way to consider the question is “what social group is associated with the location where interaction typically occurs?”.



We are interested in the largest possible conceptualisation of place. We are less interested in whether individual spaces or places are owned by people of one or another group. We wish to know whether these spaces are situated within larger tracts of space and land that are associated with some group or another.



- *This is highly contextual*: Choose this response if locations are dependent on some other considerations, and it is difficult to generalise. For example: work locations are swayed by climatic/seasonal/environmental factors; are decided by spiritual and ritual factors.




**Examples**

- *Labour:* Examples of what constitutes possible locations for work: agricultural production sites, factories, pastures
- *Trade*: If there is a shop owned by a Focus Group person in a Neighbour Group dominated urban suburb, we would choose the second response ("at places which belong to the Neighbour Group")




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Some studies from Africa suggest that if a marketplace is geographically associated with a language group, it is likely that that language will be used in transactions. Cooper & Carpenter (1976) found this to be the case in a multi-site study across Ethiopia. Fieldwork conducted in the Nigerian town of Ika suggests that the language of the town, Ika, is the language of choice in the market, despite traders speaking a variety of other languages including Urhobo, Isekiri, Igbo, and Aniocha (Onyeche 2002: 48). Adeniyi & Bello (2007) however report from a market place near the border of Benin Republic and Nigeria that Yoruba is used the most overall, with the local community language Ogu coming in second most used. These examples suggest, at the very least, that if a language is *not* associated with the geographic location of the trading place, it is less likely to be used in transaction.



For Australian Aboriginals, language and particular geographic regions are directly linked, because languages have been directly “planted” in the landscape by Dreamtime heroes. Thus a people can identify with a particular language not necessarily because they speak that language, but because they are linked to the geographical locations where that language is also linked. When crossing territories, it is customary to switch to speaking the language that is associated with the area. It is especially advisable to speak the language associated with that particular area when engaging in spiritual or ritual matters, since speaking another language might invite hostility from non-human forces. (Rumsey 1993, and references therein).


**References**

@article{AdeniyiBello2007,
  title = {Urban Linguistics in {{Nigeria}}: {{A}} Case of Language Use in {{Lagos}} Metropolis},
  author = {Adeniyi, Harrison and Bello, Rachel},
  year = {2007},
  journal = {Iranian Journal of Language Studies},
  volume = {1},
  number = {2},
  pages = {119--132}
}

@incollection{CooperCarpenter1976,
  title = {Language in the Market},
  booktitle = {Language in {{Ethiopia}}},
  author = {Cooper, Robert L. and Carpenter, Susan},
  editor = {Bender, M. Lionel and Bowden, J. Donald and Cooper, Robert L. and Ferguson, Charles A.},
  year = {1976},
  series = {Ford {{Foundation}} Language Surveys},
  pages = {224--255},
  publisher = {Oxford University Press},
  address = {London}
}

@article{Onyeche2002,
  title = {Ika Community: A Sociolinguistic Description},
  author = {Onyeche, Joseph Ifeanyi},
  year = {2002},
  journal = {Africa \& Asia: G{\"o}teborg working papers on Asian and African languages and literatures},
  volume = {2},
  number = {2},
  pages = {42--53},
  keywords = {lng,nga,scl,t.511,waf}
}

@incollection{Rumsey1993,
  title = {Language and Territoriality in {{Aboriginal Australia}}},
  booktitle = {Language and Culture in {{Aboriginal Australia}}},
  author = {Rumsey, Alan},
  editor = {Walsh, Michael and Yallop, Colin},
  year = {1993},
  pages = {191--206},
  publisher = {Aboriginal Studies Press},
  address = {Canberra, Australia}
}



*EK, FDG, OR*
