
## D9: Are there any speech styles used in domain X?

Possible response:
- Yes
- No


  
**Goal**

This question gives us a sense of any domain-specific patterns of language use in the contact situation. The answers to this question will provide some details on how speakers may speak in this domain, in terms of styles and registers along an axis of speech monitoring. For the purposes of this questionnaire, we define *speech styles* as socio-semantically informed ways of speaking *in contrast to unmonitored and so-called vernacular ways of speaking*.



**Definition**

For the purposes of this questionnaire, we define *speech styles* as socio-semantically informed ways of speaking (e.g. Bell 1984; Coupland 2007: 2) *in contrast to unmonitored and so-called vernacular ways of speaking*.



Strictly speaking, unmonitored and vernacular ways of speaking could be argued as style unto themselves. The reason for our operational definition of *speech style* is two-fold. We have chosen a binary “monitored vs unmonitored” distinction as an axis of interest due to findings from Labovian sociolinguistics concerning the two modes (see Theoretical & Empirical Support below). Secondly, choosing a binary distinction makes operationalising the question easier, as we cannot *a priori*know or decide what specific speech styles are important in language change phenomena across time and place. As the examples below demonstrate, we can identify a variety of speech style types, all of which have particular uses and nuances depending on the subfield of research, the social domain under investigation, and geographic region of a community.



The term *vernacular*in Labovian sociolinguistics is a natural speech style, in opposition to monitored or standardised speech styles (Labov 1972, cf. Coupland 2009). Coupland (2016: 410) summarises the notion of Labovian vernaculars as formally systematic, represent speaking in its most natural and least monitored conditions, and are viewed as the most consequential way of speaking for the study of language change.



**Examples**

Examples of speech styles under the operational definition include:

- formal registers
- academic and legalese jargons
- the high variety in diglossic situations
- lects associated with ceremonial events
- kinship registers
- standard varieties (e.g. national standards)
- trade jargons




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Monitored vs unmonitored was chosen as an axis of importance because sociolinguistic theories inspired by Labovian variationist research identify the latter as the locus where entrenchment of linguistic innovations occur (Labov 1972; cf. Poplack & Tagliamonte 1999). The notion of “vernacular speech” in the Labovian tradition of sociolinguistics is partially related to the amount of attention speakers pay to their speech in different communicative situations (cf. Coupland 2016). Vernacular speech is typically used when communicating with intimates in familiar contexts (Labov 1972: 208). Evidence of linguistic innovations in unmonitored speech are then taken as a sign of diffusion through the community, and an entrenchment of the innovation in speakers’ repertoires (Labov 1972).



If we identify a contact domain as that of highly monitored and/or codified speech, we may surmise that this is an unlikely domain of linguistic entrenchment (1). Conversely, if it turns out that unmonitored speech is in fact used in an unexpected domain (such as the knowledge domain), this will enriches the picture of contact scenarios in a way that is consistent with sociolinguistic predictions about the vernacular.



(1) There is of course plenty of evidence across time and place that highly monitored and/or codified speech can be sources of linguistic innovation which consequently spread outside its primary domain. For example, many religious expressions diffuse broadly (Ferguson 1982). The contemporary spread of clinical psychology jargon into everyday American English (Haslam 2016) is another example of codified speech styles diffusing into more common parlance.


**References**

@article{Bell1984,
  title = {Language Style as Audience Design},
  author = {Bell, Allan},
  year = {1984},
  journal = {Language in Society},
  volume = {13},
  number = {2},
  pages = {145--204}
}

@book{Coupland2007,
  title = {Style: {{Language Variation}} and {{Identity}}},
  author = {Coupland, Nikolas},
  year = {2007},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge},
  isbn = {978-1-78347-302-1}
}

@article{Coupland2009,
  title = {The Mediated Performance of Vernaculars},
  author = {Coupland, Nikolas},
  year = {2009},
  journal = {Journal of English Linguistics},
  volume = {37},
  number = {3},
  pages = {284--300},
  doi = {10.1177/0075424209341188}
}

@article{Coupland2016,
  title = {Labov, Vernacularity and Sociolinguistic Change},
  author = {Coupland, Nikolas},
  year = {2016},
  journal = {Journal of Sociolinguistics},
  volume = {20},
  number = {4},
  pages = {409--430},
  doi = {10.1111/josl.12191},
  keywords = {social class,sociolinguistic change,the vernacular,vernacularisation,William Labov}
}

@incollection{Ferguson1982,
  title = {Religious Factors in Language Spread},
  booktitle = {Language Spread: {{Studies}} in Diffusion and Social Change},
  author = {Ferguson, Charles A.},
  editor = {Cooper, R.},
  year = {1982},
  pages = {95--106},
  publisher = {Indiana University Press},
  address = {Bloomington, IN}
}

@article{Haslam2016,
  title = {Concept {{Creep}}: {{Psychology}}'s {{Expanding Concepts}} of {{Harm}} and {{Pathology}}},
  author = {Haslam, Nick},
  year = {2016},
  journal = {Psychological Inquiry},
  volume = {27},
  number = {1},
  pages = {1--17},
  doi = {10.1080/1047840X.2016.1082418},
  keywords = {bullying,concepts,moral psychology,prejudice,trauma}
}

@book{Labov1972a,
  title = {Sociolinguistic {{Patterns}}},
  author = {Labov, William},
  year = {1972},
  publisher = {University of Pennsylvania Press},
  address = {Philadelphia}
}

@article{PoplackTagliamonte1999,
  title = {The Grammaticization of "Going to" in {{African American English}}},
  author = {Poplack, Shana and Tagliamonte, Sali A.},
  year = {1999},
  journal = {Language Variation and Change},
  volume = {11},
  number = {3},
  pages = {315--342}
}



*EK, FDG*
