
## I2: Typically in domain X, how well do Focus Group people understand the Neighbour Group language?

- Very well
- Well
- Somewhat
- Poorly
- Very poorly


**Goal**
This question aims to get a sense of how much a Focus Group person would comprehend the linguistic input they are receiving. For example, in situations of receptive multilingualism, we may expect the Focus Group person understands the Neighbour Group’s language without necessarily actively using it in a given interactional context.

An individual's comprehension of a target language theoretically can affect acquisition. A learner's comprehension of the input often reflect their prior experience with the target language; either purely as input or through outputting production themselves. Put another way, a learner's experience can also reflect a learner's proficiency of the target language. 

**Definitions**

The scale is as follows:

- *Very well:* Focus Group people have high comprehension skills of Neighbour Group language & understand the contextual situation very well.
- *Well*: Focus Group people have low comprehension skills of Neighbour Group language but understand the contextual situation very well.
- *Somewhat:* Focus Group people have low comprehension skills of Neighbour Group language but understand the contextual situation to some extent.
- *Poorly*: Focus Group people have low comprehension skills of Neighbour Group language and do not understand the contextual situation too well either.
- *Very poorly*: Focus Group people have almost no comprehension of the Neighbour Group language and do not understand the contextual situation.

**Theoretical support**
Input plays a major role in the acquisition and usage of additional languages. 

An influential but contested hypothesis regarding the relationship between comprehension and acquisition is known as Krashen's input hypothesis (1980, 1982, 1985). In essence the hypothesis suggested that for successful acquisition of a target language the input must be comprehended and be at one stage above the learner's current level. In it's stronger form, Krashen (1998) has suggested that “extremely high levels of language and literacy" can be acquired without any production (p.177). As Mayo and Solar (2012) summarise, however, Krashen's hypothesis has been severly criticised on many grounds; amoung them, the issue of unclear definitions, and the difficulty in testing some of his proposed constructs (p.214)

The detailed relationship between comprehension and acquisition appears to be unclear. Loschky (1994) found no evidence that greater comprehension of a target language leads to greater acquisition in an experiment investigating adult learners. Ellis, Tanaka & Yamazaki (1994) found in an experimental set up that comprehension gained through interactionally modified tuition (or meaning negotiation) aids learning "because it (interaction) gives them control over the input they receive and enables them to systematically identify and solve comprehension problems." (p.481). What is intuitively clear, however, is that input comprehension is required to some degree for production-based acquisition.

The models of language acquisition implicit in these studies is one of an active type where the learner's target is to produce the target language in a fashion that approximates an abstracted standard. Other types of multilingualisms, such as receptive multilingualism, emphasise communicative ability based on comprehension of the interlocutor's language. In such cases, the relationship between comprehension of input and production is moot. Some degree of comprehension is, however, clearly required to engage in receptive multilingual interaction. The kinds of multilingual interactions engaged in by receptive multilinguals is highly dependent on each other's comprehension of the other's language, and whether they share/have some comprehension of the other's discourse community (e.g. see Zeevaert 2007) 

**References**
@article{EllisEtAl1994,
  title = {Classroom {{Interaction}}, {{Comprehension}}, and the {{Acquisition}} of {{L2 Word Meanings}}},
  author = {Ellis, Rod and Tanaka, Yoshihiro and Yamazaki, Asako},
  year = {1994},
  month = sep,
  journal = {Language Learning},
  volume = {44},
  number = {3},
  pages = {449--491},
  issn = {0023-8333, 1467-9922},
  doi = {10.1111/j.1467-1770.1994.tb01114.x},
  urldate = {2024-07-11},
  langid = {english}
}

@book{Gass2018,
  title = {Input, Interaction, and the Second Language Learner},
  author = {Gass, Susan M.},
  year = {2018},
  series = {Routledge Linguistics Classics},
  publisher = {Routledge},
  address = {New York, NY},
  isbn = {978-1-138-04320-6 978-1-138-04322-0},
  lccn = {P118.2 .G368 2018},
  keywords = {Language and languages,Second language acquisition,Study and teaching}
}

@book{GassMackey2007,
  title = {Data {{Elicitation}} for {{Second}} and {{Foreign Language Research}}},
  author = {Gass, Susan M. and Mackey, Alison},
  year = {2007},
  month = feb,
  edition = {0},
  publisher = {Routledge},
  doi = {10.4324/9780203826102},
  urldate = {2024-07-11},
  isbn = {978-0-429-23857-4},
  langid = {english}
}

@article{Loschky1994,
  title = {Comprehensible {{Input}} and {{Second Language Acquisition}}: {{What}} Is the {{Relationship}}?},
  shorttitle = {Comprehensible {{Input}} and {{Second Language Acquisition}}},
  author = {Loschky, Lester},
  year = {1994},
  month = sep,
  journal = {Studies in Second Language Acquisition},
  volume = {16},
  number = {3},
  pages = {303--323},
  issn = {0272-2631, 1470-1545},
  doi = {10.1017/S0272263100013103},
  urldate = {2024-07-11},
  copyright = {https://www.cambridge.org/core/terms},
  langid = {english}
}

@incollection{MayoSoler2012,
  title = {Negotiated Input and Output / Interaction},
  booktitle = {The {{Cambridge Handbook}} of {{Second Language Acquisition}}},
  author = {Mayo, Mar{\'i}a Del Pilar Garc{\'i}a and Soler, Eva Alc{\'o}n},
  editor = {Herschensohn, Julia and {Young-Scholten}, Martha},
  year = {2012},
  month = nov,
  edition = {1},
  pages = {209--229},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  doi = {10.1017/CBO9781139051729.014},
  urldate = {2024-07-03},
  isbn = {978-1-139-05172-9 978-1-107-00771-0}
}

@book{tenThijeZeevaert2007,
  title = {Receptive {{Multilingualism}} : {{Linguistic}} Analyses, Language Policies and Didactic Concepts},
  author = {{tenThije}, Jan D. and Zeevaert, Ludger},
  year = {2007},
  publisher = {John Benjamins Publishing Co.},
  address = {Philadelphia}
}

@incollection{Zeevaert2007,
  title = {Receptive Multilingualism and Inter-{{Scandinavian}} Semicommunication},
  booktitle = {Receptive {{Multilingualism}}: {{Linguistic}} Analyses, Language Policies and Didactic Concepts},
  author = {Zeevaert, Ludger},
  editor = {{tenThije}, Jan D. and Zeevaert, Ludger},
  year = {2007},
  pages = {103--135},
  publisher = {John Benjamins Publishing Company},
  address = {Amsterdam},
  doi = {10.1075/hsm.6.08zee},
  urldate = {2024-07-14},
  isbn = {978-90-272-1926-8 978-90-272-9247-6},
  langid = {english}
}



*FDG, EK*
