
## P4: What other languages, if any, are spoken in domain X?

**Goal**

Through this question we wish to gain an understanding of the array of languages in use within a given social domain, beyond the two languages of interest. We are aware that the analysis of contact situation through the sets we propose has limitations. For instance, contact influence on the Focus Group languages may come from other languages than those selected as Neighbour Group languages in a given set. This question asked so that we can have some awareness of what other languages may have influenced the Focus Group language.



**Examples**

- See support below.




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

The northwestern Cameroonian region of Lower Fungom shows very high degrees of linguistic diversity. As many as seven languages are associated with the thirteen villages recognised for the area, and speakers’ linguistic repertoires are considerably fluid (Di Carlo & Good 2014; Di Carlo et al. 2019). In this situation, there are a large number of other languages that could be of consequence for the structures of the Focus Group language. The same applies to the highly multilingual regions of Northern Australia, such as the Warruwi Community (Singer 2018), and to the Vaupés in Northern Amazonia (Epps 2018).



Even beyond small-scale multilingual settings, contact between pairs of unrelated languages may additionally feature the use of lingua francas and languages of wider communication, as is currently the case of English for many parts of the world.


**References**

@incollection{DiCarloEtAl2019,
  title = {Multilingualism in {{Rural Africa}}},
  booktitle = {Oxford {{Research Encyclopedia}} of {{Linguistics}}},
  author = {Di Carlo, Pierpaolo and Good, Jeff and Ojong Diba, Rachel},
  year = {2019},
  month = mar,
  publisher = {Oxford University Press},
  address = {Oxford},
  doi = {10.1093/acrefore/9780199384655.013.227},
  langid = {english}
}

@incollection{DiCarloGood2014,
  title = {What {{Are We Trying}} to {{Preserve}}? {{Diversity}}, {{Change}}, and {{Ideology}} at the {{Edge}} of the {{Cameroonian Grassfields}}},
  booktitle = {Endangered Languages: {{Beliefs}} and Ideologies in Language Documentation and Revitalization},
  author = {Di Carlo, Pierpaolo and Good, Jeff},
  editor = {Austin, Peter K. and Sallabank, Julia},
  year = {2014},
  month = oct,
  pages = {229--262},
  publisher = {British Academy},
  langid = {english}
}

@article{Epps2018,
  title = {Contrasting Linguistic Ecologies: {{Indigenous}} and Colonially Mediated Language Contact in Northwest {{Amazonia}}},
  author = {Epps, Patience},
  year = {2018},
  journal = {Language and Communication},
  volume = {62},
  number = {B},
  pages = {156--169},
  keywords = {Amazonia,Linguistic ecology,Linguistic exogamy,Maintenance,Multilingualism,Shift}
}

@article{Singer2018,
  title = {A Small Speech Community with Many Small Languages: {{The}} Role of Receptive Multilingualism in Supporting Linguistic Diversity at {{Warruwi Community}} ({{Australia}})},
  author = {Singer, Ruth},
  year = {2018},
  journal = {Language and Communication},
  volume = {62},
  pages = {102--118},
  keywords = {Identity,Indigenous Australia,Language ideologies,Language maintenance,Receptive multilingualism,Speech communities}
}



*FDG, EK*
