
## S1: How often do Focus Group people interact with Neighbour Group?

Very oftenVery often
Often
Sometimes
Rarely
Very rarely



**Goal**

This question aims to get a sense of the frequency of interactions between Focus Group and Neighbour Group in the domain. We take the frequency of interaction as one measure of the degree of integration between the respective groups of people. If Focus Group people interact with Neighbour Group people a lot, we may say that the people from both groups are highly embedded in the social network. Put another way, we are looking at one dimension of social network density: the higher the frequency of interaction, the stronger the ties between peoples of the two groups.



Please note that questions DFK12 and DFK03 have modified scales and wordings of the question particular to the domain.



**Definitions**

We have chosen to frame frequency both in terms of absolute and relative frequencies:

- Absolute frequencies are in terms of time unit measurements such as days and years.
- Relative frequencies would be for what makes sense in specific situations.




The scale is as follows:

- *Veryoften*: Characterisable as “consistently throughout the year”. Other possibilities: frequently recurring but short interactions (e.g. a few days every week), or prolonged interaction for limited periods of time (e.g. once a year for several weeks).
- *Often:* Characterisable as “some parts of the year”, or an aggregate of approximately 4-5 weeks/28-35 days of interaction in a year. Often enough, but not enough to characterise as “very often”.
- *Sometimes:* Characterisable as “some parts of the year.” Neither often nor rarely.
- *Rarely:* Characterisable as “rarely in a year”, or an aggregate of 2-3 weeks/14-21 days of interaction in a year. Rarely enough that it is difficult to characterise as “very rarely”
- *Very rarely*: Characterisable as “almost never”, or less than 5 days maximum in a year. Other possibilities: once year for a couple of days, or interactions occur based on incidental opportunities.




The “one year” is chosen based on an intuition that most societies have so kind of temporal organisation that corresponds to a calendar year





DFK12: Thinking about the Focus Group person and their Neighbour Group in-laws, how often would they typically meet?



The scale is as follows:

- *Very often*, e.g. daily.
- *Often,*e.g. once every few weeks.
- *Sometimes*, e.g. once a month*.*
- *Rarely,*e.g. once every few months
- *Very rarely*, e.g. less frequently than once a year






DFK03: Typically, how much of their lives do spouses spend with each other during the course of their lifetime?



**Definitions:**

Note here that *life* refers to the entire life span from birth to death, not only life from the point of marriage.



The scale is as follows:

- *Practically all their lives:*90% of their lives, e.g. cohabitation starting from childhood
- *Much of their lives:* 70% of their lives, e.g. cohabitation starts around puberty
- *Some of their lives:* 50% of their lives, e.g. cohabitation starts from marriage which is later in life than puberty
- *A little of their lives:* 30% of their lives, e.g. characterisable as “for some parts of the year”, frequent enough cohabitation that it is difficult to characterise as “very rarely”
- *Practically none of their lives:* up to 10% of their lives, e.g. the marriage is consummated, but then the husband and wife do not live together.






**Theoretical Support**

Language variation and change studies on social networks assume a network of social interaction, as opposed to other kinds of network structures when studying specific language phenomena. The ties between people in a network of social interaction can be characterised in a variety of ways, with interactional frequency being one option; that is, how often people speak to one another (Easley & Kleinberg 2010: 53). Empirical work by Milroy & Milroy (1985) and Lippi-Green (1989) also collected frequency of interaction data when representing the social networks of their respective communities.



The untested assumption is that frequency of interactions can be aggregated and assumed to have similar effects on language learning and use, although this assumption is not something we have investigated in-depth the literature at this point in time.



While not the primary purpose, this question may also give an indication of shared norms of behaviour in the domain. We may surmise the more frequent the interaction between people, the more likely there are shared norms.



EK
