
## S4: How physically proximate to each other are people involved in domain X?

- Very proximate to each other 
- Proximate to each other
- Somewhat proximate to each other
- Far from each other
- Very far from each other



**Goal**

This question tells us about the level of integration between Focus Group and Neighbour Group people in a network. In this question we take the physical proximity of individuals as one way of inferring how frequently people may be interacting with one another.



**Definitions**

- *Very proximate to each other:* There is little to no effort in reaching one another, and does not bear considering as effortful.
- *Proximate to each other*: There is some effort in reaching one another, but no real planning is necessary.
- *Somewhat proximate to each other*: There is some effort required to reach one another, and some planning may be necessary. The effort required is not so large as to dissuade travel if there is an imperative. Less than a days worth of travel.
- *Far from each other*: There is effort required to reach one another, and some degree of planning is required, with some physical discomfort expected. Maximum, a days worth of travel.
- *Very far from each other*: There is considerable effort required to reach one another. Logistic considerations and planning must be made. Requires one or more overnight travel.




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Dialectological studies have shown there is a statistical tendency for geographically proximate varieties to be more similar than distant ones (Nerbonne & Kleiweg 2007), which also seem to hold for rural, small scale societies (e.g. rural China, Stanford 2012). It has been shown in social network analyses that geography and physical distance play a role in the flow of information across a network (see Easley & Kleinberg 2010: 315-318 for trade networks). Given these macro level findings, we assume there is some relationship between geographic proximity, physical proximity, and interactional frequency.



The measures of distance in the answer selection were chosen in order to be applicable to different types of social ecologies (e.g. as in non-urbanised ~ highly urbanised ecologies). It seems that measures that account for social geography, and effort of travel, are the best way to account for cross-culturally different manifestations of social distance. For example, culturally relevant social distances are used in dialectological studies to get a sense of physical distance/proximity, rather than Euclidean distance (e.g Gooskens 2005 for travel times along roads in Norway, and Stanford 2012 for rice paddy distances in rural China).



Frequency of interaction is assumed to play some role in contributing to the total pool of linguistic influences an individual is affected by. While the precise role of frequency of interaction is presumably dependent on other factors, we wish to identify it as one factor that may, in relation to other social factors, contributes to some kind of linguistic change outcome.



The interaction of face-to-face communication as a factor with geographic distance is also stated in Location Theory (Hägerstrand [1953] 1967), a theory central in sociolinguistics of variation and change (cf. Chambers & Trudgill 1998; Johnstone 2010: 209). Location Theory posits that “innovation spreads in a community through a network of face-to-face interpersonal communication such that the likelihood of adoption at a given site is higher when it is close to a site of previous adoption” (Yapa 1996: 238). The assumption is that “interaction becomes less frequent as a function of distance” (Johnstone 2010: 208).

**References**

@book{ChambersTrudgill1998,
  title = {Dialectology},
  author = {Chambers, J. K. and Trudgill, Peter},
  year = {1998},
  month = dec,
  edition = {2},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge},
  doi = {10.1017/CBO9780511805103},
  urldate = {2022-11-28},
  isbn = {978-0-521-59378-6 978-0-521-59646-6 978-0-511-80510-3}
}

@book{EasleyKleinberg2010,
  title = {Networks, {{Crowds}}, and {{Markets}}: {{Reasoning}} about a {{Highly Connected World}}},
  author = {Easley, David and Kleinberg, Jon},
  year = {2010},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge}
}

@article{Gooskens2005,
  title = {Travel Time as a Predictor of Linguistic Distance},
  author = {Gooskens, Charlotte},
  year = {2005},
  journal = {Dialectologia et Geolinguistica},
  volume = {13},
  pages = {38--62},
  doi = {10.1515/dig.2005.2005.13.38}
}

@book{Hagerstrand1967,
  title = {Innovation Diffusion as a Spatial Process},
  author = {H{\"a}gerstrand, Torsten},
  translator = {Pred, Allan},
  year = {[1953] 1967},
  publisher = {University of Chicago Press},
  address = {Chicago}
}

@incollection{Johnstone2010,
  title = {Language and {{Place}}},
  booktitle = {Cambridge Handbook of Sociolinguistics},
  author = {Johnstone, Barbara},
  editor = {Mesthrie, Rajend},
  year = {2010},
  pages = {203--218},
  publisher = {Cambridge University Press},
  address = {Cambridge},
  doi = {10.2307/j.ctt7sjpn.8}
}

@article{NerbonneKleiweg2007,
  title = {Toward a Dialectological Yardstick*},
  author = {Nerbonne, John and Kleiweg, Peter},
  year = {2007},
  journal = {Journal of Quantitative Linguistics},
  volume = {14},
  number = {2-3},
  pages = {148--166},
  doi = {10.1080/09296170701379260}
}

@article{Stanford2012,
  title = {One Size Fits All? {{Dialectometry}} in a Small Clan-Based Indigenous Society},
  author = {Stanford, James N.},
  year = {2012},
  journal = {Language Variation and Change},
  volume = {24},
  number = {2},
  pages = {247--278},
  issn = {0954-3945 1469-8021},
  doi = {10.1017/s0954394512000087}
}

@incollection{Yapa1996,
  title = {Innovation Diffusion and Paradigms of Development},
  booktitle = {Concepts in Human Geography},
  author = {Yapa, Lakshman},
  editor = {Earle, Carville and Mathewson, Kent and Kenzer, Martin S.},
  year = {1996},
  pages = {231--270},
  publisher = {Rowman \& Littlefield Publishers},
  address = {Lanham, Md},
  isbn = {978-0-8476-8104-4 978-0-8476-8105-1},
  lccn = {GF43 .C66 1996},
  keywords = {Human geography}
}



*EK*
