
## T11: Typically, how much supervision do adults provide to children in domain X?

Constant supervisionConstant supervision
A lot of supervision
Some supervision
Little supervision
No supervision at all



**Goal**

Here we are interested in adult-to-child interactions specifically, unlike question [T6](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fsites.google.com%2Fview%2Frs210205edomains-questionnaire%2Fhome%23h.wrnznasw7ysz&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AOvVaw0UooR21z09COoC0-Rchl6k) which seeks information on sources of socialisation more generally. In this question, we wish to capture the degree of involvement of adults in children’s activities. The activities may range from play, apprenticeships of cultural practices, and other community-relevant activities.



Please note that question DKN27 has a modified scale and wording particular to the domain.



**Definitions**

- *Constant supervision*: if participating in activities, children always do that in the presence of adults and under their explicit and constant guidance.
- *A lot of supervision*: if participating in activities, children mostly do that in the presence of adults and under explicit guidance.
- *Some supervision*: if participating in activities, children partially do that in the presence of adults and under explicit guidance, and partially on their own.
- *Little supervision*: if participating in activities, children mostly do that on their own, with little input and guidance from the adults.
- *No supervision at all*: children are left alone in activities.






DKN27: Typically, how much structured instruction do adults provide to children in the knowledge domain?



**Definitions**

*Structured instruction* is limited to activities that are explicitly concerned with the content of knowledge being transmitted.



The scale is as follows:

- *Constant structuredinstruction:*almost all time in the knowledge domain is dedicated to learning and receiving knowledge.
- *A lot of structured instruction*
- *Somestructured instruction*: there are periods of structured instruction, but there are also periods of time for other activities
- *Little structured instruction*
- *Almost no structured instruction at all:* the amount of structured instruction is infrequent, sporadic, or constrained to a very limited time frame






**Examples**

- *Trade:*In the context of trade, we may imagine situations in which children of various ages participate in traditional trading activities in the presence of adults as a form of apprentice and/or in order to contribute to the household’s economical activities. In such contexts, the extent to which adults guide children in performing the tasks that are assigned to them may vary, and we may surmise that more explicit guidance also involves more opportunities of child-directed linguistic interactions.




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Participating in ‘interactional communicative frames’ is key to language learning (Stoll 2016: 152). However, the interactional contexts children participate in greatly vary across cultures and socio-economic environments and it has been argued that this has an impact on language/community-specific patterns of language learning and use. For instance, in the Chitang-speaking community of Nepal, adults do not typically participate in playing (and related conversational activities) with children. According to Stoll et al. (2012), this may explain the radical differences that exist between child and surrounding adult speech with respect to noun-verb ratio – Chitang-speaking children up to four years of age have a significantly higher ratio of nouns to verbs than adults.



In general, adult participation in children’s playing activities is most typical of WEIRD societies. In non-WEIRD societies children are more likely to interact with other children in the surrounding environment without any (or very little) involvement of adults (Whitebread & Basilio 2013).



Beyond play, adults’ participation in activities involving children may fulfill a pedagogical function. For example, in Bali, from very early age children take part in music and dance rehearsals in the presence of adults. These training sessions prepare young children to become an integrative part of the music and dance performances that accompany many of the local ceremonial festivities (Corona et al. 2015).



*FDG*
