# T11 (DKN27): Typically, how much structured instruction do adults provide to children in the knowledge domain?


- Constant structured instruction
- A lot of structured instruction
- Some structured instruction
- Little structured instruction
- Almost no structured instruction at all


**Goal**

Here we are interested in adult-to-child interactions specifically, unlike question [T6](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fsites.google.com%2Fview%2Frs210205edomains-questionnaire%2Fhome%23h.wrnznasw7ysz&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AOvVaw0UooR21z09COoC0-Rchl6k) which seeks information on sources of socialisation more generally. In this question, we wish to capture the degree of involvement of adults in children’s activities. The activities may range from play, apprenticeships of cultural practices, and other community-relevant activities.


**Definitions**

*Structured instruction* is limited to activities that are explicitly concerned with the content of knowledge being transmitted.

- *Constant structured instruction*: almost all time in the knowledge domain is dedicated to learning and receiving knowledge.
- *A lot of structured instruction*
- *Some structured instruction*: there are periods of structured instruction, but there are also periods of time for other activities
- *Little structured instruction*
- *Almost no structured instruction at all:* the amount of structured instruction is infrequent, sporadic, or constrained to a very limited time frame



**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Participating in ‘interactional communicative frames’ is key to language learning (Stoll 2016: 152). However, the interactional contexts children participate in greatly vary across cultures and socio-economic environments and it has been argued that this has an impact on language/community-specific patterns of language learning and use. For instance, in the Chitang-speaking community of Nepal, adults do not typically participate in playing (and related conversational activities) with children. According to Stoll et al. (2012), this may explain the radical differences that exist between child and surrounding adult speech with respect to noun-verb ratio – Chitang-speaking children up to four years of age have a significantly higher ratio of nouns to verbs than adults.



In general, adult participation in children’s playing activities is most typical of WEIRD societies. In non-WEIRD societies children are more likely to interact with other children in the surrounding environment without any (or very little) involvement of adults (Whitebread & Basilio 2013).



Beyond play, adults’ participation in activities involving children may fulfill a pedagogical function. For example, in Bali, from very early age children take part in music and dance rehearsals in the presence of adults. These training sessions prepare young children to become an integrative part of the music and dance performances that accompany many of the local ceremonial festivities (Corona et al. 2015).


**References**

@incollection{CoronaEtAl2015,
  title = {Children's {{Participation}} in {{Ceremonial Life}} in {{Bali}}},
  booktitle = {Advances in {{Child Development}} and {{Behavior}}},
  author = {Corona, Yolanda and Putri, Dewa Ayu Eka and Quinteros, Graciela},
  year = {2015},
  volume = {49},
  pages = {381--400},
  publisher = {Elsevier},
  doi = {10.1016/bs.acdb.2015.08.002},
  urldate = {2022-11-28},
  isbn = {978-0-12-803121-6},
  langid = {english}
}

@incollection{Stoll2016,
  title = {Studying {{Language Acquisition}} in {{Different Linguistic}} and {{Cultural Settings}}},
  booktitle = {The {{Routledge Handbook}} of {{Linguistic Anthropology}}},
  author = {Stoll, Sabine},
  editor = {Bonvillain, Nancy},
  year = {2016},
  series = {Routledge Handbooks in Linguistics},
  pages = {140--158},
  publisher = {Routledge},
  address = {London},
  isbn = {978-0-415-83410-0}
}

@article{StollEtAl2012,
  title = {Nouns and Verbs in {{Chintang}}: Children's Usage and Surrounding Adult Speech},
  shorttitle = {Nouns and Verbs in {{Chintang}}},
  author = {Stoll, Sabine and Bickel, Balthasar and Lieven, Elena and Paudyal, Netra P. and Banjade, Goma and Bhatta, Toya N. and Gaenszle, Martin and Pettigrew, Judith and Rai, Ichchha Purna and Rai, Manoj and Rai, Novel Kishore},
  year = {2012},
  month = mar,
  journal = {Journal of Child Language},
  volume = {39},
  number = {2},
  pages = {284--321},
  issn = {0305-0009, 1469-7602},
  doi = {10.1017/S0305000911000080},
  urldate = {2022-10-25},
  langid = {english},
}

@incollection{WhitebreadBasilio2013,
  title = {Play, Culture and Creativity},
  booktitle = {Cultures of Creativity},
  author = {Whitebread, David and Basilio, Marisol},
  editor = {Gauntlett, D. and Thomsen, B. S.},
  year = {2013},
  publisher = {LEGO Foundation},
  address = {Billund}
}


*FDG*
