
## T5: Typically, what language do Focus Group children speak to Neighbour Group children in domain X?

- The Focus Group language
- The Neighbour Group language
- Some other language
- This is highly contextual


**Goal**

This question is trying to get a sense of what languages may be spoken by Focus Group children with people of the Neighbour Group who are 1) likely to be their age peers, and 2) likely to be at a similar developmental stage as themselves. The goal is to investigate possible domains of contact between peers who are in the early stages of language acquisition.



**Definitions**

- *The Focus Group language/The Neighbour Group language/Some other language*: So-called monolingual modes of interaction. These options are mutually exclusive, that is, if more than one language is used in interaction, please select the fourth option, "This is highly contextual”.
- *This is highly contextual*: encompasses interaction in which more than one language is used, including but not limited to phenomena that come under the umbrella terms "code-switching" and/or "code-mixing".




**Examples**

- Rural adults speakers of the Afro-French creole Patwa encourage children to speak English as much as possible, while the use of Patwa is more encouraged in highly urbanised and educated contexts as a symbol of national identity. However, dominantly English-speaking children still use Patwa in everyday socializing activities and interactions with peers. This is related to the fact that the language “has become powerfully linked to adults roles and status”, which children imitate while engaging with other children, and independently of institutional language revitalization efforts (Paugh 2016: 128–129, and references therein).




**Theoretical & Empirical Support**

Research in the field of language socialization indicates that, from a relatively early age children show awareness of cultural and language-specific communicative practices of their linguistic and social environment. Children apply this awareness in interaction with the adults in their lives, but also to their peers, and this is why we address the two dimensions through separate questions (see [T4](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fsites.google.com%2Fview%2Frs210205edomains-questionnaire%2Fhome%23h.m1y3zlfhcp4w&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AOvVaw2SYTPzjjbtrC0VqE-k954k) for children’s output to adults). For instance, Davison (2018) reports that, in the Northern Australian Murrinhpatha speech community, traditional *kardu-thipman*categories (a complex system of categorization which situates aboriginal people in relation to the land and to other entities within the land, and regulates patterns of social interaction between adults) are used in children’s peer-talk already at age 3-4, as a means to identify and organise people in their own speech. This presupposes some degree of understanding of observed adult interactional behavior (Davison 2018: 221).



In addition, language socialization literature focusing on bi-/multilingual communities shows that linguistic practices involving child-peer interaction foster a wide range of age-graded language ideologies. These may have an impact on how languages are used, maintained, and transmitted in a community at a given point in time (Paugh 2016: 129). For instance, in situations of ongoing language shift, there might be a mismatch between linguistic practices involving language-learning children and official revitalization or maintenance efforts.



The answer to this question is treated as one of a number of factors that play a role in affecting the outcomes of language change. The factor by itself is likely unable to affect outcomes, but in combination with other factors, is thought to play a role.


**References**

@phdthesis{Davidson2018,
  title = {Allies and Adversaries: Categories in {{Murrinhpatha}} Speaking Children's Talk},
  author = {Davidson, Lucinda},
  year = {2018},
  school = {University of Melbourne}
}

@incollection{Paugh2016,
  title = {Language Socialization},
  booktitle = {The {{Routledge Handbook}} of {{Linguistic Anthropology}}},
  author = {Paugh, Amy L.},
  editor = {Bonvillain, Nancy},
  year = {2016},
  series = {Routledge {{Handbooks}} in {{Linguistics}}},
  pages = {125--139},
  publisher = {Routledge},
  address = {New York},
  isbn = {978-0-415-83410-0},
  lccn = {P35 .B616 2016},
  keywords = {Anthropological linguistics,Handbooks manuals etc}
}



*FDG*
