{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa0 Abbi, Anvita (ed.). 1986. {\i{}Studies in bilingualism}. New Delhi: Bahri Publications.\
Altman, John. 2008. Maradjiri and Mamurrng: Ad Borsboom and me. In Kommers, Jean & Venbroux, Eric (eds.), {\i{}Cultural styles of knowledge transmission: Essays in honour of Ad Borsboom}, 13\uc0\u8211{}18. Amesterdam University Press.\
Ames, Kenneth M. 2001. Slaves, chiefs and labour on the northern Northwest Coast. {\i{}World Archaeology} 33(1). 1\uc0\u8211{}17. (doi:10.1080/00438240120047591)\
Anand, Pranav & Nevins, Andrew. 2004. Shifty Operators in Changing Contexts. {\i{}Semantics and Linguistic Theory} 14. 20. (doi:10.3765/salt.v14i0.2913)\
Aquilina, Joseph. 1987. {\i{}Maltese-English Dictionary}. Malta: Midsea Books.\
Arenas, Pastor. 2003. {\i{}Etnograf\uc0\u237{}a y alimentaci\uc0\u243{}n entre los Toba-\uc0\u209{}achilamole#ek y Wich\uc0\u237{}-Lhuku\uc0\u8217{}tas del Chaco Central, Argentina}. Buenos Aires, Argentina: Pedro Arenas.\
Artieda, Teresa Laura & Liva, Yamila & Almiron, Victoria Soldedad & Nazar, Anabel. 2015. Educaci\uc0\u243{}n para la infancia ind\uc0\u237{}gena en la reducci\uc0\u243{}n Napalp\uc0\u237{} (Chaco, Argentina, 1911-1936). {\i{}Anthropologica} 33(35). 117\uc0\u8211{}139.\
Asatrian, Garnik S. Diml\uc0\u299{}. {\i{}Encyclop\uc0\u230{}dia Iranica Vol. VI, Fasc. 4}. (http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/dimli)\
Atlasi ya lugha za Tanzania. 2009. Dar es Salaam: Mradi wa Lugha za Tanzania, Chuo Kikuu cha Dar es Salaam.\
Australian Bureau of Statistics. 2016. Table 1.3.3 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander persons who spoke an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander language at home by age. {\i{}Language Statistics for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples}. (Https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/people/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-peoples/language-statistics-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-peoples/latest-release#available-data.) (Accessed October 1, 2022.)\
Avelino Sierra, Rosnataly. 2017. {\i{}Contacto ling\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u237{}stico entre el espa\uc0\u241{}ol y el otom\uc0\u237{} en San Andr\uc0\u233{}s Cuexcontitl\uc0\u225{}n}. M\uc0\u233{}xico: Universidad Nacional Aut\uc0\u243{}noma de M\uc0\u233{}xico. (Tesis de licenciatura.) (http://rgdoi.net/10.13140/RG.2.2.32649.36968) (Accessed November 24, 2022.)\
Avelino Sierra, Rosnataly. 2022. {\i{}La gesti\uc0\u243{}n del n\uc0\u250{}mero en los miembros de dos comunidades biling\uc0\u252{}es espa\uc0\u241{}ol-otom\uc0\u237{}}. M\uc0\u233{}xico: El Colegio de M\uc0\u233{}xico. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Avellana, Alicia & Dante, Paticia. 2013. Algunas observaciones sobre el contacto ling\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u237{}stico entre el toba (qom) y el espa\uc0\u241{}ol en una comunidad del Gran Buenos Aires. {\i{}Lenguas amerindias: contribuciones y perspectivas} 153\uc0\u8211{}162.\
Ayres, Mary Clifton. 1983. {\i{}This side, that side: locality and exogamous group definition in Morehead area, southwestern Papua}. Chicago: University of Chicago. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Bagshaw, Geoffrey. 1978. Gapu Dhulway, Gapu Maramba: Conceptualization and ownership of saltwater among Burarra and Yan-nhangu peoples of northeast Arnhemland. In Peterson, Nicolas & Rigsby, Bruce (eds.), {\i{}Customary Marine Tenure in Australia} (Oceania Publications). University of Sydney.\
Balto, Asta. 1996. {\i{}Samisk skolehistorie\uc0\u8211{}en kort innf\uc0\u248{}ring [The history of the S\uc0\u225{}mi School: a short introduction]}. Guovdageaidnu: Saami University College. (SUC Report.)\
Bartholomew, D. 2000. Intercambio ling\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u237{}stico entre otom\uc0\u237{} y n\uc0\u225{}huatl. In Lastra, Yolanda & Quezada, Noem\uc0\u237{} (eds.), {\i{}Estudios de cultura otopame 2}, 306\uc0\u8211{}314. M\uc0\u233{}xico: Instituto de Investigaciones Antropol\uc0\u243{}gicas, UNAM.\
Bateson, Gregory. 1936. {\i{}Naven}. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.\
Beach, David. 1994. {\i{}The Shona and Their Neighbours. Blackwell Publishers.} Blackwell Publishers.\
Belancic, Kristina. 2020. {\i{}Language policy and S\uc0\u225{}mi education in Sweden: ideological and implementational spaces for S\uc0\u225{}mi language use}. Ume\uc0\u229{} University. (PhD dissertation.)\
Berge, Anna. 2016. Polysynthesis in Aleut (Unangam Tunuu). In Kurebito, Tokusu (ed.), {\i{}Linguistic typology of the North, vol. 3}, 1\uc0\u8211{}22. Tokyo: ILCAA.\
Berge, Anna. 2017. Lexical Evidence for the Former Presence of Unangam Tunuu in Currently Alutiiq Areas. Institute for Linguistics, Moscow, Russia. (Presented at the Workshop on Language Contact in the Circumpolar World, Institute for Linguistics, Moscow, Russia.)\
Berge, Anna. 2018. Re-evaluating the reconstruction of Proto-Eskimo-Aleut. {\i{}Journal of Historical Linguistics} 8(2). 230\uc0\u8211{}272. (doi:10.1075/jhl.17017.ber)\
Berge, Anna. forthcoming. Signs of Prehistoric Language Shifts Involving Unangam Tunuu (Aleut). {\i{}Proceedings of the International Conference on Historic Linguistics 24}. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.\
Berge, Anna & Kari, James. 2020. Cognates, Substrata, and Adstrata.  Linguistic Diffusions in Cook Inlet and the Alaska Peninsula. Fairbanks, Alaska. (Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Alaskan Anthropological Association, Fairbanks, Alaska.)\
Bergman, Ted, G. & Mbongu\uc0\u233{}, Joseph & Sowers, Rachel & Tooley, Tracy. 2007. {\i{}Sociolinguistic Survey Among the Rangi People}. SIL International.\
Bergsland, Knut & Dirks, Moses (eds.). 1990. {\i{}Unangam ungiikangin kayux tunusangin =: Unangam uniikangis ama tunuzangis = Aleut tales and narratives}. Fairbanks, Alaska: Alaska Native Language Center, University of Alaska, Fairbanks.\
Binford, Lewis R. 2001. {\i{}Constructing frames of reference: an analytical method for archaeological theory building using hunter-gatherer and environmental data sets}. Berkeley: University of California Press.\
Borsboom, Ad P. 1978. {\i{}Maradjiri: A Modern Ritual Complex in Arnhem Land, North Australia}. Katholieke Universiteit te Nijmegen. (PhD Dissertation.)\
Bowden, Ross. 1997. {\i{}A dictionary of Kwoma: a Papuan language of north-east New Guinea} (Pacific Linguistics. Series C 134). Canberra, A.C.T., Australia: Pacific Linguistics, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University.\
Bowern, Claire & Bentley, James. 2006. Yan-nha\uc0\u331{}u language documentation and revitalisation. In Hobson, John & Lowe, Kevin & Poetsch, Susan & Walsh, Michael (eds.), {\i{}Re-awakening languages: Theory and practice in the revitalisation of Australia\uc0\u8217{}s Indigenous languages}, 361\uc0\u8211{}371. Sydney University Press.\
Brauk\uc0\u228{}mper, Ulrich. 1983. {\i{}Die Kambata: Geschichte und Gesellschaft eines s\uc0\u252{}d\uc0\u228{}thiopischen Bauernvolkes} (Studien zur Kulturkunde 65. Bd). Wiesbaden: F. Steiner.\
Braunstein, Jos\uc0\u233{}. 2005. Los pueblos ind\uc0\u237{}genas del Gran Chaco. {\i{}Mundo de antes} 4. 127\uc0\u8211{}137.\
Brincat, Joseph. 2011. {\i{}Maltese and other languages. A linguistic history of Malta}. Malta: Midsea Books.\
Brown, Reuben. 2014. The role of songs in connecting the living and the dead: a funeral ceremony for Nakodjok in western Arnhem Land. In Harris, Amanda (ed.), {\i{}Circulating cultures: exchanges of Australian Indigenous music, dance and media}, 169\uc0\u8211{}201. Australian National University Press.\
Buckley, Thomas. 1982. {\i{}Yurok Realities in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries}. University of Chicago. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Buckley, Thomas. 1984. Yurok Speech Registers and Ontology. {\i{}Language in Society} 13(4). 467\uc0\u8211{}488.\
Buckwalter, Alberto S. 1980. {\i{}Vocabulario Toba}. Buenos Aires, Argentina: Talleres Gr\uc0\u225{}ficos Grancharoff.\
Cameron, Catherine M. 2011. Captives and Culture Change: Implications for Archaeology. {\i{}Current Anthropology} 52(2). 169\uc0\u8211{}209. (doi:10.1086/659102)\
Carew, Margaret. 2016. {\i{}Gun-ngaypa Rrawa \uc0\u8216{}My Country\uc0\u8217{}: Intercultural alliances in language research}. Monash University.\
Carrasco Pizana, Pedro. 1979. {\i{}Los Otom\uc0\u237{}es. Cultura e historia prehisp\uc0\u225{}nica de los pueblos mesoamericanos de habla otomiana}. Ed. facs. 1950. M\uc0\u233{}xico: Biblioteca enciclop\uc0\u233{}dica del Estado de M\uc0\u233{}xico.\
Clunies-Ross, Margaret. 1983. Two Aboriginal oral texts from Arnhem Land, North Australia, and their cultural context. In Knight, Stephen Thomas & Mukherjee, Soumyendra Nath (eds.), {\i{}Words and Worlds: Studies in the Social Role of Verbal Culture}, 3\uc0\u8211{}20. Association for Studies in Society and Culture.\
Clunies-Ross, Margaret. 1989. The Aesthetics and Politics of an Arnhem Land Ritual. {\i{}The Drama Review: A Journal of Performance Studies} 33(4). 107\uc0\u8211{}127.\
Cobbing, Julian Raymond Dennis. 1976. {\i{}The Ndebele under the Khumalo 1820-1896}. University of Lancaster. (PhD dissertation.)\
Conathan, Lisa Jane. 2004. {\i{}The linguistic ecology of Northwestern California: Contact, functional convergence and dialectology}. Berkeley: University of California. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Cook, Sherburne Friend. 1956. {\i{}The Aboriginal Population of the North Coast of California} (Anthropological Records 16). Berkeley: University of California Press.\
Cox, Richard & Stegen, Oliver. 2007. {\i{}A Dialect Survey among the Rangi of Tanzania}. SIL International.\
Craig, Elliot. 1991. {\i{}Mewal is Merri\uc0\u8217{}s name: Form and ambiguity in Marrangu cosmology, North Central Arnhem Land}. Australian National University. (Master of Arts Thesis.)\
Davis, Stanley Drew. 1996. {\i{}The Archaeology of the Yakutat Foreland:  A Socioecological View}. Texas A&M University. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
De Laguna, Frederica. 1934. {\i{}The Archaeology of Cook Inlet, Alaska}. University of Pennsylvania Press. (doi:10.9783/9781512815474) (https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.9783/9781512815474/html) (Accessed November 29, 2022.)\
Donald, Leland. 1997. {\i{}Aboriginal slavery on the Northwest Coast of North America}. Berkeley: University of California Press.\
Dumond, Don E. 2001. Toward a (yet) newer view of the (pre)history of the Aleutian. In Dumond, Don E. (ed.), {\i{}Archaeology in the Aleut zone of Alaska: some recent research} (University of Oregon Anthropological Papers 58), 298\uc0\u8211{}309. Eugene, Oregon: University of Oregon.\
Eades, Diana. 2000. I don\uc0\u8217{}t think it\uc0\u8217{}s an answer to the question: Silencing Aboriginal witnesses in court. {\i{}Language in Society} 29(2). 161\uc0\u8211{}195.\
Ecker, Lawrence. 1966. Algunas observaciones sobre el calendario otom\uc0\u237{} y los nombres otom\uc0\u237{}es de los monarcas nahuas en  el C\uc0\u243{}dice de Huichapan. In Pompa y Pompa, Antonio (ed.), {\i{}Summa anthropologica: homenaje a Robert J. Weitlaner}, 605\uc0\u8211{}612. M\uc0\u233{}xico: Instituto Nacional de Antropolog\uc0\u237{}a e  Historia.\
Evans, Bethwyn & Palmer, Bill. 2011. Contact-induced change in South Bougainville. {\i{}Oceanic Linguistics} 50(2). 489\uc0\u8211{}529.\
Evans, Nicholas. 2012. Even more diverse than we had thought: The multiplicity of Trans-Fly languages. In Evans, Nicholas & Klamer, Marian (eds.), {\i{}Melanesian languages on the edge of Asia: challenges for the 21st century} (Language Documentation & Conservation Special Publication 5), 109\uc0\u8211{}149. Honolulu: University of Hawai\uc0\u8217{}i Press. (https://openresearch-repository.anu.edu.au/handle/1885/28667)\
Evans, Nicholas. 2017. Did language evolve in multilingual settings? {\i{}Biology & Philosophy} 32(6). 905\uc0\u8211{}933. (doi:10.1007/s10539-018-9609-3)\
Farm Products Council of Canada. 2014. {\i{}Annual Report to Parliament on the Access to Information Act}. FPCC Canada.\
Forsgren, Tuuli. 1988. {\i{}Samisk kyrko-och undervisningslitteratur i Sverige 1619-1850.} Forskningsarkivet, Ume\uc0\u229{} universitet.\
Garcia Pimentel, Luis (ed.). 1897. {\i{}Descripci\uc0\u243{}n del arzobispado de Mexico hecha en 1570 y otros documentos}. M\uc0\u233{}xico: J.J. Terrazas e hijas imps.\
Gewertz, Deborah B. 1983. {\i{}Sepik River societies: a historical ethnography of the Chambri and their neighbors}. New Haven: Yale University Press.\
Golla, Victor. 2011. {\i{}California Indian languages}. Berkeley: University of California Press.\
Gomang, Syarifuddin R. 1993. {\i{}The people of Alor and their alliances in Eastern Indonesia: a study in political sociology}. Wollongong: University of Wollongong.\
Gordillo, Gast\uc0\u243{}n. 2006. {\i{}En el Gran Chaco: antropolog\uc0\u237{}as e historias}. Buenos Aires: Prometeo Libros.\
Gordon, Raymond G. 2005. {\i{}Ethnologue: Languages of the World (15th Edition).} Dallas, Texas: SIL International.\
Green, Toby. 2011. {\i{}The rise of the trans-Atlantic slave trade in Western Africa}. Vol. 18. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.\
Green, Toby. 2019. {\i{}A fistful of shells: West Africa from the rise of the slave trade to the age of Revolution}. Penguin UK.\
Grimes, Barbara Dix & Grimes, Charles E. & Jacob, Max & Therik, Tom. 1997. {\i{}A guide to the people and languages of Nusa Tenggara} (Paradigma, Series B). Kupang: Artha Wacana Press.\
Haan, Johnson Welen. 2001. {\i{}The Grammar of Adang: A Papuan language spoken on the island of Alor East Nusa Tenggara \uc0\u8211{} Indonesia}. University of Sydney. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Hamilton, Annette. 1981. {\i{}Nature and Nurture: Aboriginal Child-rearing in North-central Arnhem Land}. Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies.\
Harrison, Simon. 1993. {\i{}The mask of war: violence, ritual, and the self in Melanesia}. Manchester\uc0\u8239{}; New York\uc0\u8239{}: New York: Manchester University Press\uc0\u8239{}; Distributed exclusively in the USA and Canada by St. Martin\uc0\u8217{}s Press.\
Harrison, Simon J. 1990. {\i{}Stealing People\uc0\u8217{}s Names: History and Politics in a Sepik River Cosmology}. 1st edn. Cambridge University Press. (doi:10.1017/CBO9780511521096) (https://www.cambridge.org/core/product/identifier/9780511521096/type/book) (Accessed November 25, 2022.)\
Hecht, Ana Carolina. 2010. {\i{}\uc0\u8220{}Todav\uc0\u237{}a no se hallaron hablar en idioma\uc0\u8221{}: procesos de socializaci\uc0\u243{}n ling\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u237{}stica de los ni\uc0\u241{}os en el barrio toba de Derqui (Argentina)} (LINCOM studies in sociolinguistics 9). M\uc0\u252{}nchen: LINCOM EUROPA.\
Hekking, Ewald & Bakker, Dik. 2010. Tipolog\uc0\u237{}a de los pr\uc0\u233{}stamos l\uc0\u233{}xicos en el otom\uc0\u237{} queretano: una contribuci\uc0\u243{}n para el estudio sistem\uc0\u225{}tico y comparativo de diversas lenguas representativas del mundo desde un enfoque interling\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u237{}stico. {\i{}Ciencia UAQ} 3(1). 27\uc0\u8211{}44.\
Henrysson, Sten & Alm, Anita (eds.). 1993. {\i{}Samer, pr\uc0\u228{}ster och skolm\uc0\u228{}stare: Ett kulturellt perspektiv p\uc0\u229{} samernas och \uc0\u214{}vre Norrlands historia}. Ume\uc0\u229{}: Centre for Arctic Research.\
Hiatt, Les. 1966. The lost horde. {\i{}Oceania} 37. 81\uc0\u8211{}92.\
Hitchcock, Garrick. 2010. Mound-and-ditch taro gardens of the Bensbach or Torassi River area, southwest Papua New Guinea. {\i{}Artefact: the Journal of the Archaeological and Anthropological Society of Victoria}. Melbourne, Vic.: Archaeological and Anthropological Society of Victoria, Inc. (33). 70\uc0\u8211{}90.\
Hrdli\uc0\u269{}ka, Ale\uc0\u353{}. 1945. {\i{}The Aleutian and Commander Islands and their inhabitants}. Philadelphia: The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology.\
Jannok-Nutti, Ylva. 2010. {\i{}Ripsteg mot spetskunskap i samisk matematik: L\uc0\u228{}rares perspektiv p\uc0\u229{} transformeringsaktiviteter i samisk f\uc0\u246{}rskola och sameskola}. Lule\uc0\u229{} University of Technology. (PhD Dissertation.)\
Karsten, Rafael. 1993. {\i{}Los indios tobas del Gran Chaco boliviano}. San Salvador de Jujuy: Universidad Nacional de Jujuy. (Trans. Santamaria, Daniel J.)\
Kashima, Eri. 2020. {\i{}Language In My Mouth: Linguistic Variation in the Nmbo Speech Community of Southern New Guinea}. Australian National University. (Doctoral dissertation.) (https://openresearch-repository.anu.edu.au/handle/1885/201927) (Accessed November 23, 2022.)\
Keen, Ian. 1978. {\i{}One ceremony, one song: An economy of religious knowledge among the Yolngu of north-east Arnhem Land}. Australian National University. (PhD Dissertation.)\
Keen, Ian. 2004a. {\i{}Aboriginal Economy and Society: Australia at the threshold of colonisation}. Oxford University Press.\
Keen, Ian. 2004b. How some Murngin men marry ten wives: The marital implications of matrilateral cross-cousin structures. {\i{}Man} 17(4). 620\uc0\u8211{}642.\
Keen, Jan. 2011. The Language of Property: Analyses of Yolngu relations to country. In Musharbash, Yasmine & Barber, Marcus (eds.), {\i{}Ethnography and the production of anthropological knowledge: Essays in honour of Nicolas Peterson}, 101\uc0\u8211{}119. The Australian National University Press.\
Klamer, Marian. 2011. {\i{}A short grammar of Alorese (Austronesian)}. M\uc0\u252{}nchen: Lincom Europa.\
Kopytoff, Igor (ed.). 1987. {\i{}The African frontier: The reproduction of traditional African societies.} Indiana University Press.\
Kortekangas, Otso & Keskitalo, Pigga & Nyyss\uc0\u246{}nen, Jukka & Kotljarchuk, Andrej & Paksuniemi, Merja & Sj\uc0\u246{}gren, David (eds.). 2019. {\i{}S\uc0\u225{}mi educational history in a comparative international perspective}. Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan.\
Kroeber, Alfred Louis. 1925. {\i{}Handbook of the Indians of California} (Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 78). Washington, D.C.: Smithsionian Institution.\
Kroeber, Alfred Louis & Gifford, Edward Winslow. 1949. {\i{}World Renewal: A Cult System of Native northwest California} (University of California Anthropological Records 13). Berkeley: University of California Press.\
Kusmenko, Jurij. 2010. Har ett samiskt inflytande p\uc0\u229{} nordiska spr\uc0\u229{}k varit m\uc0\u246{}jligt? In Mundal, Else & Rydving, H\uc0\u229{}kan (eds.), {\i{}Samer som \uc0\u8220{}de andra\uc0\u8221{}, samer om de andra: identitet och etnicitet i nordiska kultur- m\uc0\u246{}ten.}, 48\uc0\u8211{}67. Ume\uc0\u229{}: Ume\uc0\u229{} Universitet.\
Lantis, Margaret. 1938. The Mythology of Kodiak Island, Alaska. {\i{}The Journal of American Folklore} 51(200). 123. (doi:10.2307/535533)\
Lantis, Margaret (ed.). 1970. {\i{}Ethnohistory in southwestern Alaska and the southern Yukon} (Studies in Anthropology 7). Lexigton: University Press of Kentucky.\
Lastra, Yolanda. 2010. {\i{}Los otom\uc0\u237{}es: su lengua y su historia}. M\uc0\u233{}xico: Universidad Nacional Aut\uc0\u243{}noma de M\uc0\u233{}xico.\
Leer, Jeff. 1991. Evidence for a Northwest Coast language area: Promiscuous number marking and periphrastic possessive constructions in Haida, Eyak, and Aleut. {\i{}International Journal of American Linguistics} 57(2). 158\uc0\u8211{}193.\
Lewis, Paul M. & Simons, Gary F. & Fenning, Charles D. (eds.). 2014. Rotokas. {\i{}Ethnologue: Languages of the World, 17th Edition}.\
Liapunova, Roza Gavrilovna. 1996. {\i{}Essays on the ethnography of the Aleuts: at the end of the eighteenth and the first half of the nineteenth century} (The Rasmuson Library Historical Translation Series v. 9). Fairbanks: University of Alaska Press. (Trans. Shelest, Jerry & Black, Lydia T. & Workman, William B.)\
Lindmark, Daniel. 1988. {\i{}1812 \uc0\u229{}rs uppfostringskommitt\uc0\u233{}s enk\uc0\u228{}t: Svaren fr\uc0\u229{}n lappmarksf\uc0\u246{}rsamlingarna}. Ume\uc0\u229{}: Forskningsarkivet, Ume\uc0\u229{} universitet.\
Lindmark, Daniel. 2006. {\i{}En lappdr\uc0\u228{}ngs omv\uc0\u228{}ndelse: Svenskar i m\uc0\u246{}te med samer och deras religion p\uc0\u229{} 1600-och 1700-talen}. Centrum f\uc0\u246{}r samisk forskning, Ume\uc0\u229{} universitet.\
Lindmark, Daniel. 2014. Educational Media in S\uc0\u225{}pmi. Religious Instruction in a Missionary Context (1619-1811). {\i{}IJHE Bildungsgeschichte \uc0\u8211{} International Journal for the Historiography of Education} 4(1). 51\uc0\u8211{}62.\
Loakes, Deborah & Moses, Karin & Wigglesworth, Gillian & Simpson, Jane & Billington, Rosey. 2013. Children\uc0\u8217{}s language input: A study of a remote multilingual Indigenous Australian community. {\i{}Multilingua} 32(5). 683\uc0\u8211{}711. (doi:10.1515/multi-2013-0032)\
Maschner, Herbert D. G. 2016. Archaeology of the eastern Aleut region. In Friesen, T. Max & Mason, Owen K. (eds.), {\i{}The Oxford handbook of the prehistoric Arctic} (The Oxford Handbooks Series). New York: Oxford University Press.\
Mazarire, Gerald Chikozho. 2003. Who are the Ndebele and the Kalanga in Zimbabwe? (Paper Prepared\tab{}for Konrad Adenuer Foundation Project on \uc0\u8216{}Ethnicity in Zimbabwe, \tab{}November 2003.)\
McCarthy, John Keith. 1963. {\i{}Patrol Into Yesterday: My new Guinea Years}. Melbourne: Cheshire.\
McConvell, Patrick. 2013. Comment on Denham\uc0\u8217{}s\uc0\u8217{} Beyond Fictions of Closure in Australian Aboriginal Kinship. {\i{}Mathematical Anthropology and Cultural Theory} 5(3). 1\uc0\u8211{}6.\
Mendoza, Marcela. 2002. {\i{}Band mobility and leadership among the Western Toba hunter-gatherers of Gran Chaco in Argentina} (Mellen Studies in Anthropology 7). Lewiston, N.Y: E. Mellen Press.\
Messineo, Cristina. 2020. Ling\uc0\u252{}istas intuitivos. La labor de los misioneros menonitas entre los toba/qom del Chaco argentino? Santa Rosa-La Pampa. (Presented at the 11\uc0\u176{} Congreso Internacional de Ling\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u237{}stica Misionera, Santa Rosa-La Pampa.)\
Minde, Henry. 2005. Fornorskninga av samene \uc0\u8211{} hvorfor, hvordan og hvilkef\uc0\u248{}lger? {\i{}G\uc0\u225{}ldu C\uc0\u225{}la} 3. 3\uc0\u8211{}19.\
Moro, Francesca R. 2019. Loss of Morphology in Alorese (Austronesian): Simplification in Adult Language Contact. {\i{}Journal of Language Contact} 12(2). 378\uc0\u8211{}403. (doi:10.1163/19552629-01202005)\
Msindo, E. 2002. {\i{}Rethinking the Ndebele and the Kalanga, 1860-1960}. University of Cambridge. (MPhil thesis.)\
National Statistics Office. 2005. {\i{}Census of population and housing 2005}. Malta: National Statistics Office.\
Norlin, Bj\uc0\u246{}rn & Lindmark, Daniel. 2021. Generating and Popularising Historical Knowledge in a Reconciliation Process: The Case of the Church of Sweden and the Sami. In Keynes, Matilda & \uc0\u197{}str\uc0\u246{}m Elmersj\uc0\u246{}, Henrik & Lindmark, Daniel & Norlin, Bj\uc0\u246{}rn (eds.), {\i{}Historical Justice and History Education}, 131\uc0\u8211{}151. Cham: Springer International Publishing. (doi:10.1007/978-3-030-70412-4_7) (https://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-3-030-70412-4_7)\
NSO & Kunsill tal-Malti. 2021. {\i{}Il-Qaghda tal-Ilsien Malti}. Malta: Stharrig Nazzjonali.\
Palmer, Bill. 2007. Papapana draft dictionary.\
Pandit, Prabodh Bechardas. 1977. {\i{}Language in a Plural Society: The Case of India}. New Delhi: Dev Raj Chanana Memorial Committee.\
Phiri, Admire. 2021. {\i{}The Verbal and Nominal Morpho-syntax of Tjwao: A Grammaticalisation Approach}. Stellenbosch University. (PhD dissertation.)\
Piha, Minerva. 2021. Comments on the origins of some South Saami words within the domain of indigenous religion. {\i{}Ural-Altaische Jahrb\uc0\u252{}cher} 28. 23\uc0\u8211{}43.\
Pilling, Arnold R. 1978. Yurok. In Heizer, Robert F. (ed.), {\i{}California} (Handbook of North American Indians 8), 137\uc0\u8211{}154. Washington, D.C.: Smithsionian Institution.\
Pilling, Arnold R. 1989. Yurok Aristocracy and \uc0\u8220{}Great Houses.\uc0\u8221{} {\i{}American Indian Quarterly} 13(4). 421. (doi:10.2307/1184525)\
Robinson, Stuart. 2011. {\i{}Split intransitivity in Rotokas, a Papuan language of Bougainville}. Nijmegen: Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics. (PhD dissertation.)\
Ross, Malcom. 1988. {\i{}Proto-Oceanic and the Austronesian languages of Western Melanesia}. Camberra: Australian National University.\
Ruffino, Giovanni. 2018. Il plurilinguismo e l\uc0\u8217{}ALM (Atlante Linguistico Mediterraneo). {\i{}Lingue antiche e moderne} 7. 63\uc0\u8211{}94.\
Schuh, Russell. 2003. The linguistic influence of Kanuri on Bade and Ngizim. {\i{}Maiduguri Journal of Linguistic and Literary Studies} 5. 55\uc0\u8211{}89.\
Scott, James C. 2009. {\i{}The art of not being governed. Yale University Press.} Yale University Press.\
Smith, Ellen. 2016. Contact-induced Change in a Highly Endangered Language of Northern Bougainville \super *\nosupersub{}. {\i{}Australian Journal of Linguistics} 36(3). 369\uc0\u8211{}405. (doi:10.1080/07268602.2015.1134300)\
Snigaroff, Cedor L. 1953. Stories recorded by Bergsland and Snigaroff in 1952. In Bergsland, Knut (ed.), trans. Bergsland, Knut, {\i{}Ni\uc0\u285{}u\uc0\u285{}is Maqax\uc0\u770{}tazaqangis / Atkan Historical Traditions}.\
Soustelle, Jacques. 1993. {\i{}La familia otom\uc0\u237{}-pame del M\uc0\u233{}xico Central} (Secci\uc0\u243{}n de obras de historia). 1. ed. M\uc0\u233{}xico, D.F: Centro de Estud. Mex. y Centroamericanos, Fondo de Cultura Econ\uc0\u243{}mica.\
Spott, Robert & Kroeber, Alfred Louis. 1942. {\i{}Yurok Narratives} (University of California Publications in American Archaeology and Ethnology 35). Berkeley: University of California Press.\
Srivastasva, R. N. 1977. Indian bilingualism: Myth and reality. In Sharma, P. Gopal & Kumar, Suresh (eds.), {\i{}Indian bilingualism}, 57\uc0\u8211{}87. Agra: Kendriya Hindi Sasthan.\
Stegen, Oliver. 2010. {\i{}In quest of a vernacular writing style for the Rangi of Tanzania: Assumptions, processes, challenges.} Edinburgh: University of Edinburgh. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Sulistyono, Yunus. 2022. {\i{}A history of Alorese (Austronesian). Combining linguistic and oral history}. Leiden: Universiteit Leiden. (Doctoral dissertation.) (Accessed December 9, 2022.)\
Svonni, Mikael. 2007. Det tveeggade skolsystemet: Undervisningen av samernas barn i Sverige under 1900-talet fram till 1980. In Westergren, Eva & \uc0\u197{}hl, Hans (eds.), {\i{}Mer \uc0\u228{}n ett spr\uc0\u229{}k: En antologi om flerspr\uc0\u229{}kigheten i norra Sverige}, 94\uc0\u8211{}123. Falun: Norsteds Akademiska F\uc0\u246{}rlag.\
Tola, Florencia. 2014. Esposos y amantes consangu\uc0\u237{}neos entre los tobas (qom) del Gran Chaco. {\i{}Journal de la soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} des am\uc0\u233{}ricanistes} 100(1). 131\uc0\u8211{}161. (doi:10.4000/jsa.13742)\
Veniaminov, Ivan. 1846. {\i{}Opyt grammatiki aleutskolis\uc0\u8217{}evskago yazyka}. St. Petersburg: Academia Nauk.\
Villa-Se\uc0\u241{}or y S\uc0\u225{}nchez, Joseph Antonio. 1952. {\i{}Theatro Americano. Descripci\uc0\u243{}n general de los reynos y provincias de la Nueva Espa\uc0\u241{}a y sus jurisdicciones}. M\uc0\u233{}xico: Editora Nacional.\
{\i{}Waiting for Harry}. 1980. Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies.\
Walsh, Michael. 1991. Conversational styles and intercultural communication: an example from northern Australia\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Australian Journal of Communication} 18(1). 1\uc0\u8211{}12.\
Waterman, Thomas Talbot & Kroeber, Alfred Louis. 1934. Yurok marriages. {\i{}University of California Publications in American Archaeology and Ethnology} 35(1). 1\uc0\u8211{}14.\
Weidl, Miriam. 2018. {\i{}The role of Wolof in multilingual conversations in the Casamance: Fluidity of linguistic repertoires.} SOAS, University of London. (PhD dissertation.)\
Wellfelt, Emilie. 2007. {\i{}Diversity and shared identity: A case study of interreligious relations in Alor, Eastern Indonesia}. Gothenburg: Gothernburg University. (Master\uc0\u8217{}s thesis.)\
Wellfelt, Emilie. 2016. {\i{}Historyscapes in Alor: Approaching indigenous history in Eastern Indonesia}. V\uc0\u228{}xj\uc0\u246{}: Linnaeus University. (Doctoral dissertation.)\
Wild, Stephen (ed.). 1986. {\i{}Rom: An Aboriginal ritual of diplomacy}. Canberra: Aboriginal Studies Press.\
Williams, F. E. 1936. {\i{}Papuans of the Trans-Fly}. Oxford: Claredon press.\
Workman, William B. & Workman, Karen Wood. 2010. The End of the Kachemak Tradition on the Kenai Peninsula, Southcentral Alaska. {\i{}Arctic Anthropology} 47(2). 90\uc0\u8211{}96. (doi:10.1353/arc.2010.0013)\
Zachrisson, Inger. 2012. Samer i syd i g\uc0\u229{}ngen tid - till Uppland och Oslotrakten i s\uc0\u246{}der. In Tun\uc0\u243{}n, H\uc0\u229{}kan & Fr\uc0\u228{}nd\uc0\u233{}n, M\uc0\u228{}rit & Ojala, Carl-G\uc0\u246{}sta & \uc0\u214{}hman, May-Britt (eds.), {\i{}Uppsala mitt i S\uc0\u225{}pmi. Rapport fr\uc0\u229{}n ett symposium arr. av F\uc0\u246{}reningen f\uc0\u246{}r samiskrelaterad forskning i Uppsala}. 8-12: Uppsam.\
}